100 UNGULATA.
without any instance of a gradation to the more normal structure of T. bairdi being discovered. The cranial characters of the two forms may be thus briefly expressed:—
1. T. bairdi. Nasals well developed, each ossified from a single centre, separate throughout life, thick at their base, and articulated with one another for the greater part of their length.
2. T. dowi. Nasals very small, each ossified from two centres, thin, more or less separated from one another by an anterior prolongation of the frontals, with which they become partially or entirely ankylosed before the animal reaches maturity.
Concerning the external characters of the two Central-American Tapirs further information is still required. The young of T. bairdi, which has been described by Mr. Verrill*, and figured, though not very satisfactorily, by Mr. Sclater†, is of a reddish-brown colour above, darker on the head and limbs, and irregularly marked with white spots and stripes, while the breast and belly are either spotted pale yellow or dirty white. The half-grown specimen obtained by Mr. Salvin for the British Museum, and figured by Gray‡, is dark reddish brown, passing along the back into blackish brown, and on the cheeks and sides of the neck into yellowish chestnut, which in its turn grades into the white of the throat and breast; the chin is dusky brown, and the edges of the lips are pure white. It appears to me, however, to be highly doubtful whether this is the adult livery, and whether the species is always so “easily distinguishable by the bay cheek and white breast” as Gray thought: a white throat and chest is not uncommon in the young of the other species of Tapirus, and there is no proof that it does not eventually disappear in the adult of T. bairdi.
In his original description of Dow’s Tapir, Dr. Gill states that Captain Dow “was told by the party who gave him the skulls that the young are not marked on the body with longitudinal light-coloured stripes like E. bairdii; and he believes that this want of marking is evidently constant in the young of the species found in Guatemala”§. Positive evidence on this question is still wanting. Mr. Sclater, in figuring (under the name of T. bairdi) the young living female in the Zoological Society’s Gardens, already alluded to, remarks:—“This animal, although not by any means full-grown, has nearly lost the spots of immaturity which distinguished our former specimen of this interesting species ||, received in August last; and as it also differs from the adult as figured by Dr. Gray ¶, I have thought it advisable to have a careful figure made of it. It stands about 23 inches in height, and is 42 inches long, from the extended snout to the rump.
* Amer. Journ. Science, xliv. pp. 126, 127. † P. Z. S. 1871, p. 626, pl. 1.
‡ P. Z. S. 1867, pp. 885, 886, pl. xlii. If the colourists have been accurate, the specimen has faded a good deal since the original drawing was made by Mr. Wolf.
§ Amer. Journ. Science, l. p. 142. || This was true T. bairdi (cf. infrà, p. 103).
¶ This alludes to the half-grown specimen of T. bairdi described above.
