102 UNGULATA.
Hab. MEXICO, Oaxaca (Liebmann, Mus. Hafn. ?; Rickards, Mus. R. Coll. Surg.11); HONDURAS, Omoa (Leyland1)?; NICARAGUA (Zool. Soc. Viv.10); COSTA RICA (Frantzius8), Pacuar, Atlantic coast (Zeledon, Mus. Brit.); PANAMA (White, U.S. Nat. Mus.2; Mus. R. Coll. Surg.5), Veragua (Salvin, Mus. Brit.6), River Chagrés (Dow9).
So far back as 1676 the Tapir was noticed as a native of Southern Mexico by Dampier, under the name of “the Mountain Cow (called by the Spaniards Ante).” He was somewhat confused by the suggestion of a learned person in Holland that the Mountain Cow was identical with the Hippopotamus*, but shrewdly expresses his opinion that it “must needs be of a different Species.” After giving a sufficiently recognizable description of the animal, and noting that “altogether it is sweet wholesome Meat,” Dampier gives the following account of its habits, which he says he received from his consorts, and from other Englishmen and Spaniards:—
“This Creature is always found in the Woods near some large River; and feeds on a sort of long thin Grass, or Moss, which grows plentifully on the Banks of Rivers; but never feeds in Savannahs, or Pastures of good Grass, as all other Bullocks do. When her Belly is full, she lies down to sleep by the Brink of the River; and at the least Noise slips into the Water: where sinking down to the Bottom, tho’ very deep, she walks as on dry Ground. She cannot run fast, therefore never rambles far from the River; for there she always takes Sanctuary, in case of danger. There is no shooting of her but when she is asleep. They are found, besides this place [Campeachy], in the Rivers in the Bay of Honduras; and on all the Main from thence as high as the River of Darien. Several of my Consorts have kill’d them there, and knew their Track, which I myself saw in the Isthmus of Darien; but should not have known it, but as I was told by them. For I never did see one, nor the Track of any but once”†.
But it was not till fifteen years ago that the Central-American Tapirs were distinguished by zoologists. The present species, as already stated, was first characterized in 1865 by Dr. Gill from the examination of the skull, and was named by him in deserved honour of Professor Spencer F. Baird, to whose labours we owe so much of our knowledge of American zoology2. Its external form remained unknown till two years later, when a young animal was described by Mr. Verrill4, and a half-grown individual by the late Dr. Gray6 7. Since then the range of the species has been shown to extend from Panama to Southern Mexico; but the discovery of a second species of Central-American Tapir renders further observation necessary before the exact distribution of the two forms can be properly understood. The authenticated localities from which Baird’s Tapir has been recorded are widely spread. As far back as 1843 the late Professor Liebmann brought home from the Mexican State of Oaxaca the mutilated skin of a
* In the tenth edition of the ‘Systema Naturæ’ Linnæus doubtfully included the American Tapir in the genus Hippopotamus, under the name of H. terrestris (p. 74); but in the twelfth edition it is entirely omitted.
† Dampier’s ‘Voyages,’ ii. pt. 2, pp. 102, 103.
