104 UNGULATA.
2. Tapirus dowi. (Tab. VIII. figg. 3–5; Tab. IX.)
Tapirus bairdi, Sclater, P. Z. S. 1867, p. 4731; Sclater, op. cit. 1872, p. 635, pl. li.2; Gervais, Journ. de Zool. ii. p. 26, pl. i. (nec Gill)3.
Elasmognathus dowi, Gill, Amer. Journ. Science, 1. p. 142 (1870, descr. orig.)4.
Tapirus dowi, Alston, P. Z. S. 1879, p. 6665.
Hab. GUATEMALA (Dow, U.S. Nat. Mus.4); NICARAGUA, Volcan Viejo (Dow, Mus. Brit.1 5), Corinto, Pacific coast (Dawes, Mus. Brit., ex Viv. Zool. Soc.2 5); COSTA RICA, Atlantic coast (Carmiol, Mus. Par.3).
I have given full details above of the discovery of this very remarkable animal by Dr. Gill4, and of the further information which I have been able to add as to its characters. Last year I briefly announced that the skull sent by Captain Dow to Mr. Sclater as that of T. bairdi was really referable to T. dowi, and that the same was the case with the young specimen obtained by the Zoological Society from Corinto (a small town near Realejo)2, and now preserved in the British Museum. As Dr. Gill mentioned no precise localities, and as the latter places are both in the western part of Nicaragua, I suggested that the range of Dow’s Tapir might prove to be confined to the Pacific slopes of that State and of Guatemala5.
Since then my attention has been directed to the figures given by the late Professor Gervais of a skull of “Tapirus bairdi“ in the Paris Museum, described as “provenant de Panama.” His illustrations at once suggested that this was another example of T. dowi; and on applying to Professor Milne-Edwards I was supplied with drawings of the fronto-nasal region, which proved that this was the case. I also learned from M. Milne-Edwards that the skin to which this skull belonged is also preserved in the French national collection, that they had been obtained in exchange from the British Museum, and that the locality of Panama was given on the authority of the late Dr. Gray. After some trouble I ascertained that the specimen in question had been originally obtained by the British Museum through Mr. Salvin; and I learn from that gentleman that it was sent to him from Costa Rica by J. Carmiol, who distinctly stated in his letter that it was the Danta of the Atlantic coast of that State. My suggestion that the two forms might represent one another on the opposite slopes of the watershed is thus negatived, and it is evident that they are found together, at least in some districts; for, as stated above, Baird’s Tapir has also been received from the Atlantic coast of Costa Rica. The exact distribution of the two animals must be left for future investigation; but, as I have already remarked, the range of Dow’s Tapir appears to be more restricted than that of its ally, not extending, as far as we know at present, either into Mexico or Panama.
Messrs. Godman and Salvin send me the following notes on the Tapirs of Guatemala, which may refer in part to the last species:—
“Tapirs are found in the forests of both sides of the Cordillera; but they are not met
