TAPIRUS. 105
with in the mountainous interior, where the forests are of smaller extent or give place to open savanas, or to tracts of pines or oaks—virgin forest or older tracts of second-growth woods being apparently essential to their economy. During the whole of our stay in Guatemala we were very unfortunate in never being able to obtain a specimen ourselves, nor were our native hunters more successful. We first found ourselves in their haunts when spending a few days at Yzabal, the port of Guatemala, situated on the lake of the same name. Our morning excursions in pursuit of birds took us in a canoe along the shores of the lake, and into the small creeks which entered the forest at various places. On the muddy banks of these creeks the unmistakable footprints of Tapirs were seldom absent, being sometimes so numerous and fresh that one or more animals must have been very recently in our vicinity. We never, however, saw one; and our stay was too short to organize any serious pursuit of them.
“We next came across Tapirs in a very different country, though situated in what is probably the same range of forest and on the same watershed. This was in the high mountainous district of Santa Cruz, which is reached in a short day’s journey from the village of San Gerónimo in Vera Paz. We had gone thither to explore the district; and the day previous to our arrival a native had hunted and killed two Dantas close to where we took up our quarters. We had the melancholy satisfaction of tasting their flesh, but the animals had been chopped up before we even heard of their capture. Santa Cruz, the elevation of which is about 6000 feet above the sea, was clothed, at the time of our visit, with dense virgin forest with occasional clearings; and Tapirs were said to be not uncommon. The hunters told us that when pursued they would rush down the mountain-side for a long distance until they reached water, in which they would stand at bay. They have regular paths in the forest, one of which we followed for some distance. The flesh of the Tapir is dark-coloured and rather strongly flavoured, and probably most appreciated by hungry hunters in the mountain air of Santa Cruz.
“We have no notes of the occurrence of Tapirs in the forests of Northern Vera Paz; nor did we meet with any sign of them on the road to Peten, though forests and water such as they love were there in plenty.
“On the Pacific coast Tapirs are no doubt abundant. In the forests of the hacienda of El Overo, a few leagues from the port of San José, the proprietor, Don Juan Viteri, assured us that they were to be found in plenty. He it was, we believe, who supplied Captain Dow with the original specimens of T. dowi. We also had tidings of this animal in various other parts of this coast; but none ever came actually under our own observation, except on one occasion. Early in 1874 Salvin was staying at one of the coffee-plantations at San Augustin, a cultivated tract on the slopes of the Volcano of Antitlan, situated between 2000 and 3000 feet above the sea. An excursion to ascend the mountain had been arranged, and a camp pitched in the forest at a height of about 6000 feet on a sharp spur between two deep ravines. Two native hunters with their dogs were with the party, and after the camp was formed Salvin proceeded up the crest of
BIOL. CENT.-AMER., Mamm. Vol. 1, June 1880. P
