106 UNGULATA.
the spur with the view of tracing a route for the following day. He took a Danta-track, unmistakable signs of the presence of which animals were about; and the hunters and their dogs followed. He had not gone far when the dogs drew ahead and the hunters after them, when of a sudden a shout was heard, then a shot, and the next moment a Danta dashed past tossing its head, and plunged down the mountain-side, dogs barking and men shouting and yelling after it. These sounds gradually grew fainter, till at last two shots were heard, and we were congratulating ourselves on the capture of a Tapir at last. Long after dark the hunters returned to our camp, bringing with them not a Tapir, but an old and young White-lipped Peccary, which they had met with and secured when in pursuit of the other animal. As for the Tapir, it would not stop, they said, till it came to water, and there was none near. One of the dogs followed it, and was away all night; but in the early morning it crept back to our camp fire—in the absence of its master it had given up the hunt as hopeless.”
Our Plate represents the full-grown but not quite adult specimen in the Paris Museum.
II. ARTIODACTYLA.
The Even-toed Ungulates of Central America show an almost equal mingling of Neotropical and Nearctic forms. Thus Dicotyles belongs essentially to the former fauna, although one species ranges some way into North America; while Ovis and Antilocapra, characteristic Nearctic types, are found in the extreme north of our subregion. The Deer of the genus Cariacus are common to both regions, and species belonging to both faunas are represented in Central America.
Fam. I. SUIDÆ.
I. DICOTYLES.
Dicotyles, G. Cuvier, Règne An. i. p. 237 (1817).
The only existing American Pigs constitute a genus apart, differing from Sus and the other Old-World genera in several important particulars. They have only four upper incisors, and only three premolars on each side above and below; their median metacarpals and metatarsals are ankylosed into cannon-bones; and a curious odorous gland opens on the middle of the back. This was mistaken by the old travellers for a second navel, a popular error which suggested to Cuvier the name Dicotyles.
The two known species of Peccary were first distinguished by Azara*, and both are found in Central America. They may be easily recognized by the following differences in size and colour:—
* Quad. de la Prov. du Paraguay (1801), i. pp. 18, 25.
