108 UNGULATA.
In Central America the Peccary was first noticed by Hernandez, under the euphoneous titles quoted above. In the seventeenth century Lionel Wafer gave the following quaint account of it in his ‘Description of the Isthmus of America‘:—
“The Country has of its own a kind of Hog, which is called Pecary, not much unlike a Virginia Hog. ‘Tis black, and has little short Legs, yet is pretty nimble. It has one thing very strange, that the Navel is not upon the Belly, but the Back: and what is more still, if upon killing a Pecary the Navel be not cut away from the Carcass within 3 or 4 Hours after at farthest, ‘twill so taint all the Flesh, as not only to render it unfit to be eaten, but make it stink insufferably. Else ‘twill keep fresh several Days, and is very good wholesome Meat, nourishing and well tasted. The Indians barbecue it, when they would keep any of it longer: The Manner in which they do it I shall describe elsewhere. These Creatures usually herd together, and range about in Droves; and the Indians either hunt them down with their Dogs, and so strike them with their Lances, or else shoot them with their Arrows, as they have Opportunity”*.
At the present day the Collared Peccary appears to be abundant in all the Central-American States. Messrs. Godman and Salvin inform me that “in Guatemala this species is more often met with in the low-lying forests than in the less heavily timbered higher country; but even in the mountains it is not uncommon in suitable localities, such as the forests of the Volcan de Fuego, to a height of 7000 or 8000 feet, and the Santa-Cruz range in Vera Paz, at an elevation of 6000 feet. In the latter district the Indians hunt these animals with dogs. The hunters stand behind trees at the side of a path likely to be followed by a Peccary when pursued, and stab it as it rushes by. The afternoon of the day on which we reached Santa Cruz we met an Indian carrying on his back a Coche de Monte which had been killed in this way; but in the death-struggle the brute had seized the man’s hand and pinned it to the handle of his knife, causing severe lacerated wounds. In Guatemala the Collared Peccary is usually seen in parties of five or six individuals in the forest, but in the early morning they trespass into the clearings.”
Dr. v. Frantzius says that in Costa Rica this species is known by the name of Sajino, and is found on the central plateau up to an elevation of 8000 feet. It is hunted by the Costa-Ricans, both on account of its excellent flesh and because it does much damage to the maize-fields8.
2. Dicotyles labiatus. (Tab. X.)
Dicotyles labiatus, Cuvier, Règne An. i. p. 238 (1817, ex Azara)1; Frantzius, Arch. f. Naturg. xxxv. 1, p. 2962.
Cariblanco of Costa-Ricans2.
Warree of Indians.
* Dampier’s Voyages, iii. p. 328.
