110 UNGULATA.
also found, though probably in fewer numbers. The two Warrees, female and young, killed by the Tapir-hunters, as already mentioned*, were met with at an elevation of upwards of 5000 feet above the sea in the forest-clad slopes of the Volcan de Atitlan. No others were with them, the drove being probably at some distance off; the females with their young broods probably keeping apart from the herd until the latter are of a sufficient size to shift for themselves. The young one in the present case was about a quarter grown, and clothed in the rich russet hair peculiar to young animals of this family.”
The late Mr. Belt was evidently unacquainted with the difference between the two species of Peccary; for he gave the name of D. tajacu to the “Wari” of Nicaragua, of whose habits he gives the following account:—"These Wari go in herds of from fifty to one hundred. They are said to assist one another against the attacks of the Jaguar, but that wary animal is too intelligent for them. He sits quietly on the branch of a tree till the Wari come underneath, then, jumping down, kills one by breaking its neck; leaps up into the tree again, and waits there until the herd depart, when he comes down and feeds on the slaughtered Wari in quietness”†.
In Costa Rica, Dr. v. Frantzius informs us that the White-lipped Peccary is found in great droves in the thick primeval forests of the warmer lowlan ds, but is also met with occasionally in the higher-lying mountain-woods, as at Cariblanco, near the Sarapiqui. This place takes its name from the tradition that the early settlers were disturbed in the first night of their encampment by a herd of these Peccaries rushing by, Cariblanco (white face) being the common name of this species in Costa Rica2.
Fam. II. BOVIDÆ.
1. OVIS.
Ovis, Linnæus, Syst. Nat. i. p. 97 (1766).
Two genera of hollow-horned Ruminants are represented in our subregion by characteristic Nearctic types, which just cross its northern boundary, while a third has recently been exterminated.
Of the genus Ovis the New World has only a single species, O. cervina, more generally known by the name of O. montana. Some authors have regarded it as identical with the North-Siberian Wild-Sheep, O. nivicola, Eschscholtz‡; but its distinctness is generally recognized by zoologists, and it appears to differ constantly in colour, in cranial proportions, and in the curves of the horns.
* Anteà, p. 105. † ‘Naturalist in Nicaragua,’ p. 30.
‡ As Middendorff (Reise Sibir., Säugeth. pp. 116–118) and others.
