OVIS.—BISON. 111
1. Ovis cervina.
Ovis montana, Cuvier, Règne An. i. p. 267 (1817, ex Geoffroy, nec Ord)1*; Baird, Mamm. N. Am. p. 6732; Baird, Rep. U.S. Mex. Bound. Surv. ii., Mamm. p. 523.
Ovis cervina, Desmarest, Nouv. Dict. d’Hist. Nat. xxi. p. 553 (1818, ex Geoffroy)4.
Borrego cimaron of Mexicans3.
Tenatzali, Tajé of Indians3.
Hab. NORTH AMERICA, Rocky Mountains from Upper Missouri and Yellowstone southwards2.—MEXICO, Sonora (Schott3).
The range of the “Big-horn,” or Mountain Sheep of North America, extends into Sonora, where the species was found not unplentifully by the naturalists of the United-States Boundary Survey. Mr. A. Schott remarks that the differences of the state of drainage in that region appear to determine the distribution of the various Ruminants. “Thus the Common Deer belongs to the more shady lowlands, the Mule Deer to the uplands, the Antelope ranges over the open mountain table-lands; whilst the Mountain Sheep has its home on the rugged crests of the waterless sierras of North-western Sonora and New Mexico.”
Mr. Schott also notices that the curious story as to the Big-horn’s power of leaping over precipices, and saving itself by alighting on its massive horns, is firmly believed by the native hunters. “It is also not a modern invention, for Clavigero mentions the same as he heard it from the lips of the Californian Indians”3.
[BISON.]
In his admirable and exhaustive memoir on ‘The American Bisons, Living and Extinct’†, Mr. J. A. Allen gives satisfactory evidence of the former extension of the range of the so-called Buffalo, Bison americanus (Gmelin), to the south of the Rio Grande. It is true that the notices of Hernandez and other medieval writers may refer to the old province of Quivira, which lay far to the north of the present boundary of Mexico; but the evidence collected by the late Dr. Berlandier, and contained in his manuscripts now in the Smithsonian Institution, leaves no doubt that the annual southward migration of the Bison formerly extended far south of the present United-States frontier. There is sufficient proof of its former range, says Mr. Allen, “over the north-eastern provinces of
* It is with great regret that I feel obliged to change the well-known name of the American Wild-Sheep, but no choice is left to any one who accepts the fundamental law of priority. Ovis montana of Ord (Guthrie’s Geogr. (2nd Am. ed.) pp. 292, 309 [1815, descr. orig. fide Baird]; Journ. Ac. Philad. i. [1817] p. 8) is indisputably the Rocky-Mountain Goat, which now properly stands as Aplocerus montana (Ord). It is evident, therefore, that the name Ovis montana cannot be applied to any other animal.
† Mem. Mus. Comp. Zool. Harvard Coll. iv. no. 10, pp. 1–246, pls. i.–xii. (1876); also simultaneously issued as Mem. Geol. Surv. Kentucky, i. pt. 2; and reprinted in Rep. U.S. Geol. and Geogr. Surv. of Territories for 1875, pp. 443–587.