114 UNGULATA.
1. C. macrotis. Anterior and posterior portions of antlers both branched; metatarsal gland on upper portion of metatarsus, 4" to 6" long, covered with tawny hairs. Coat dark grey; tail white, with a black tip. Length of head and body 60" to 70".
2. C. virginianus. Antlers curved forwards, with tines on their upper posterior surface; metatarsal gland on lower portion of metatarsus, ½" to 1" long, surrounded with white hairs. Coat tawny grey or reddish; face dark; tail long, tapered, grey above, white beneath. Length 55" to 65".
3. C. toltecus. Antlers short, upright, nearly straight, and semipalmate, with basal and terminal tines; metatarsal gland absent. Coat “dark chestnut-brown,” face blackish, belly white; tail long, truncated, brown above, white below. Length 40" to 46".
4. C. rufinus. Antlers simple spikes; metatarsal gland absent. Coat bright rufous, passing into blackish brown on the face and legs; lighter, but not white, beneath. Length about 30".
1. Cariacus macrotis.
Cervus macrotis, Say, Narr. Long’s Exped. ii. p. 88 (1823, descr. orig. [fide Baird])1; Baird, Mamm. N. Am. p. 6562; Baird, Rep. U.S. Mex. Bound. Surv. ii., Mamm. p. 51 3; Caton, Antelope and Deer of Amer. p. 934.
Cariacus macrotis, Brooke, P. Z. S. 1878, p. 9215.
? Aculliame, Hernandez, Rer. Med. Nov. Hisp. p. 325.
Hab. NORTH AMERICA, west of Missouri River, from British Columbia southwards4.—MEXICO, Corralitos, San-Luis Mountains, Sierra Madre (Kennerly3).
The well-known Mule Deer, or Black-tailed Deer, of the Western United States extends its range into the northern provinces of Mexico, where it was observed by the naturalists of the Boundary Survey in the States of Chihuahua and Sonora. Of its distribution there Dr. Kennerly observes that the members of the Survey did not meet with it till they reached the valley of the Corralitos River, and even there it was not very common. In the San-Luis Mountains and the Sierra Madre, however, it was very numerous, being at least as plentiful as the Virginian Deer; but it was remarked to be more easily disturbed and driven from its accustomed haunts than that species. “It is somewhat curious that we did not observe the Black-tailed Deer after leaving the Sierra Madre, although it is found in great numbers in California. The belt of country traversed by us, included between that mountain and the 111th meridian, seemed to be almost if not entirely without this animal, while in several localities the Virginian Deer and Antelope were both very common”3. I have been unable to trace the occurrence of the Mule Deer further to the south; and as it appears
