116 UNGULATA.
in any of the specimens collected between Guatemala and Panama; but I have seen specimens from Mexico and Texas with eight and ten tines; and one splendid specimen collected by Mr. Dresser near Friedrichsburg in Texas has as many as fifteen. The Texan Deer are decidedly larger than those inhabiting Guatemala, Nicaragua, and Panama”13. No better proof of the complete gradation of these varieties can be given than the fact that zoologists do not know to which form the Texan Deer should be referred: Professor Baird treated them as C. virginianus, placing the geographical limit of the species near the United-Sates and Mexican Boundary2; while Sir Victor Brooke regards them as C. mexicanus and moves the line of demarcation to the River Missouri13! Of the other names quoted in the synonymy, there can be little doubt of the correctness of Sir Victor’s reference of Hamilton-Smith’s Cervus nemoralis14 to the present species; and it appears to me to be more than probable that the Venado cuernicabra of the Mexican hunters, to which. M. de Saussure gave the provisional name of C. capricornis15, is merely founded on individual varieties of C. virginianus with simple antlers, similar to forms which are well known in other species of Deer.
The Virginian Deer seems to be regularly distributed and far from uncommon in Central America. Dr. Kennerly remarks that in Northern Mexico it is particularly numerous, both in the valleys and among the mountains, especially in the neighbourhood of Santa Cruz9; and M. de Saussure says that it is very common in all the wooded parts of the Republic10.
In Guatemala Messrs. Salvin and Godman found this Deer nearly everywhere they went. They inform me that “It is not only widely distributed over the country, but has also a great range in altitude where it finds suitable localities. A shed horn, partly nibbled, was picked up by us in the extinct crater of the peak of the Volcan de Fuego, called Acatenango, at an elevation of over 13,000 feet above the sea; and traces of Deer were not unfrequently seen on the grassy pine-clad slopes of the mountain, down to a height of 10,000 feet where the dense forest-zone commences. On the open pastures of Calderas (7000 feet) this species is not uncommon; and we frequently met with it in the neighbourhood of Dueñas, especially during the dry season, when Deer would come to drink in the river or the outfall of the Lake of Dueñas. The Indians of this district often hunt them at this time of year on Sundays or feast days. The active male population of a village, with curs of every degree, turn out on such an occasion, and after finding a Deer they hunt it over hill and plain till the animal is fairly run down and killed. Often a whole morning is occupied in the pursuit; but the Indians, accustomed as they are to long journeys on foot carrying heavy loads, never tire, and seldom fail to secure their prey. Indians who have guns also secure Deer by lying in wait at the pools of water which they frequent.
“In other parts of Guatemala Deer are equally common, as at San Gerónimo and elsewhere in Vera Paz; but perhaps they were nowhere more abundant than at Huamuchal, near the Pacific Ocean, close to the Mexican frontier. A day here seldom passed without one or more being seen.
