118 UNGULATA.
So long ago as 1851 Audubon and Bachman made incidental mention of a small Deer from Yucatan and Southern Mexico in which the metatarsal gland was absent*; and nine years later M. de Saussure gave the name of Cervus toltecus to a small Cervine skull obtained near Orizaba1. In a paper read before the New-York Lyceum of Natural History in 1872, Mr. W. J. Hays described a small Deer without metatarsal tufts as Cervus yucatanensis3; and in 1877 Judge Caton, who probably was not acquainted with Mr. Hays’s paper, gave the name of Cervus acapulcensis to what is evidently the same form4. The dimensions of M. de Saussure’s typical skull would appear to indicate a somewhat smaller animal than is shown by the measurements of the American writers; but in this respect there appears to be considerable latitude. The form of the nearly straight flattened Roe-like antler figured by the Swiss zoologist agrees so well with Messrs. Hays and Caton’s descriptions and illustrations as to leave no doubt in my mind that all three types were specifically identical.
Nothing has been recorded of the habits of the Yucatan Deer in its native country; but it appears to be not unfrequently brought alive to the United States, and to thrive in captivity. Mr. Hays remarks that the antlers are shed in the month of March. Judge Caton first met with the species in Woodward’s Gardens at San Francisco, and afterwards kept it in his own park, where he obtained hybrids with the Virginian Deer and with another species which he believed to be a native of Ceylon†. Of its habits in captivity he remarks:—"While I cannot charge the Acapulco Deer with having a wicked disposition, it certainly has more courage and combativeness than any of our other Deer, and corresponds in these respects with the Ceylon Deer…… They do not hesitate to attack Deer of the other species three times their size and strength, and beat them by mere force of courage and will”4.
Mr. Allen informs me that the specimen in the collection of Harvard College is a nearly full-grown female, and agrees in every respect with the characters pointed out by Judge Caton. He adds that “the skull differs very much in its proportions from that of C. virginianus, especially in the relative shortness of the facial regions; in other words, the skull is broad and short, as stated by Caton.” This agrees well with the measurements of the typical skull of C. toltecus as given by M. de Saussure.
4. Cariacus rufinus.
Cervus rufinus, Bourcier & Pucheran, Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1851, p. 561 (descr. orig.)1; Pucheran, Arch. du Mus. vi. p. 491, pl. xxx.2; Frantzius, Arch. f. Naturg. xxxv. 1, p. 3003.
Cariacus rufinus, Brooke, P. Z. S. 1878, p. 9254.
Cervus sartorii, de Saussure, Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1860, p. 252 (descr. orig.)5.
? Cervus (Coassus) —?, Moore, P. Z. S. 1859, p. 516.
* Quad. N. Amer. ii. p. 200.
† What Mr. Caton’s “Ceylon Deer” can be I am quite at a loss to know; from what he says it would appear to be a Cariacus, in which case there must, of course, be some error as to its nativity.
