CARIACUS. 119
? Temamaçame, Maçatl chichiltic, Hernandez, Rer. Med. Nov. Hisp. p. 325.
Guisisil and Cabrito del Monte of Guatemalans.
Cabra del Monte of Costa-Ricans.
Hab. MEXICO, Mirador (Sartorius5, Mus. Darmst.3); GUATEMALA, Coban in Vera Paz and Pacific coast generally (Godman & Salvin); HONDURAS (Leyland6); COSTA RICA (Rogers, Mus. Brit.), Pacaca, Guaitil (Frantzius3).—SOUTH AMERICA to Ecuador1.
The Black-faced Brocket belongs to a small group of species of the Neotropical subgenus Coassus which are very closely allied to one another, but appear to differ constantly in size and coloration. Of these it has much the most northern range, extending throughout the greater part of Central America. There appears to be little doubt that it was the Temamazame of Hernandez*; and still less that the Mirador skull on which M. de Saussure bestowed the provisional name of Cervus sartorii5 belonged to this species, for Dr. v. Frantzius informs us that two specimens of C. rufinus from the same locality have been presented by Herr Sartorius to the Darmstadt Museum3.
I am informed by Messrs. Godman and Salvin that “The Guisisil, as this little Deer is called throughout the Pacific coast region of Guatemala, is well known to hunters, but, owing to its habits of constantly remaining in the undergrowth of the denser forest, it is an animal not easy to secure. By all accounts it is not uncommon in the forests which spread over the slopes of the volcanoes to the Pacific Ocean, but we only once came across it ourselves; this was in the forests of the sides of the Volcan de Atitlan, about 4000 feet above the sea, when a dog belonging to one of the Indian hunters of our party found a half-decomposed carcass near the track we were following.
“In the neighbourhood of Coban, in Vera Paz, where it is called the Cabrito del Monte, it used to be common; and once we shot a young one in second-growth forest not far from the town. At that time (1861) this Deer, the Coche de Monte (Dicotyles tajacu), Tepescuinte (Cœlogenys paca), and Agouti (Dasyprocta punctata) were the chief ground-game of the Indian hunter. Probably now the animal is more scarce, and one must go further afield to find it.”
Further to the south this species is found in the warmer parts of Costa Rica, where it bears the same name of Cabra del Monte, or “forest-goat”3. South of the Isthmus its range extends through Colombia, whence examples have been received by the British Museum, to Ecuador, where the type specimen was obtained by M. Bourcier1. Further south than this its existence has not been established, for Dr. Burmeister’s suggested identification with the Brazilian C. nanus† of Lund requires confirmation.
Dr. v. Frantzius remarks that the Black-faced Brocket appears to agree in its habits, as well as in the colour of the fawns, with what has been recorded of its Brazilian ally, C. rufus (F. Cuvier), by Burmeister and Rengger3.
* Cf. suprà, p. 113, footnote. † Thiere Brasil. i. p. 319.
