120 GLIRES.
Order VII. GLIRES.
I. SIMPLICIDENTATA.
In this the dominant suborder of Rodents* the aspect of the Central-American fauna is of a very mixed character, Neotropical types preponderating in some groups and Nearctic in others.
In the first section, the Sciuromorpha, this is well illustrated in the Sciuridæ, where we find that our representatives of Sciurus are mostly southern forms, that Tamias is absent, and that Cynomys just crosses our northern boundary; while, on the other hand, such characteristically northern genera as Sciuropterus and Spermophilus are well established in Mexico. The family Haplodontidæ is not represented; but the Beaver, sole surviving member of the Castoridæ, is found along the Nearctic frontier.
Of the Myomorpha the Muridæ are decidedly Nearctic. Passing over the introduced species of Mus, we find that the known Central-American species of Hesperomys all belong to the North-American subgenera or sections of that large genus, except a few which appear to be peculiar to the subregion. The allied Nearctic genera Ochetodon, Sigmodon, Neotoma, and Arvicola are all represented; while the Neotropical forms Drymomys, Holochilus, and Reithrodon seem to be totally absent. The Geomyidæ probably find their greatest development in Central America, but are also spread over most of North America, whereas only one or two forms are known to extend south of the Isthmus of Panama. The Nearctic family Zapodidæ is not represented.
In the Hystricomorpha we have a characteristic Neotropical type in the Dasyproctidæ, and the only Central-American species of Hystricidæ belongs to the South-American genus Synetheres. On the other hand, the great groups which lend such a peculiar character to the Neotropical fauna are either poorly represented or wanting; the large family of Octodontidæ has only a single form, Myopotamus, and the Chinchillidæ, Dinomyidæ, and Caviidæ are conspicuous by their absence.
On balancing the affinities of the whole order, the Nearctic types of Rodents must be considered to preponderate in numbers in Central America, notwithstanding the presence of some very characteristic Neotropical forms.
* The arrangement of the Rodents here adopted is essentially that proposed in my paper “On the Classification of the Order Glires” (P. Z. S. 1876, pp. 61–98, pl. iv.).
