SCIUROPTERUS. 121
Fam. I. SCIURIDÆ.
1. SCIUROPTERUS.
Sciuropterus, F. Cuvier, Ann. du Mus. x. p. 126 (1825).
The true Squirrels which are provided with a flying expansion of the skin have been divided into two genera, Pteromys of George Cuvier, and Sciuropterus of his brother Frédéric—the members of the latter being distinguished by their smaller size, by their flat distichous tails, and by their molars remaining tuberculate through life, instead of being very soon worn down to a flat surface. In reviewing the genera of this order four years ago* I did not accord full generic rank to Sciuropterus; but on further consideration I am now disposed to admit its validity, although some Indian species appear to be rather intermediate in their characters. Several minor cranial features, as the breadth of the nasals and the development of the postorbital processes, appear to be constant; and the geographical distribution of the two forms is strikingly different; for Pteromys is confined to the Oriental Region, whilst Sciuropterus, although extending into India and Central America, is characteristic of the Palæarctic and Nearctic faunæ.
Several species of North-American Flying-Squirrels have been described as distinct; but Mr. J. A. Allen, in his invaluable monograph of the Sciuridæ of that continent†, has shown that only a northern and a southern form exist, and these he regards as varieties of the same species. They show a wonderful amount of geographical variation in size, specimens from the extreme north of the range being more than one half larger than examples from the extreme south. In the former the length of the head and body averages over 6 inches, while in the latter it is not more than 6, usually less than 5·50 inches. There are also slight variations in colour, which, however, appear completely to intergrade. I have not sufficient material to form an independent opinion on the value of the differences between the two forms; but in any case the southern Flying-Squirrel will stand as Sciuropterus volucella (Pallas), while the northern, if regarded as distinct, will be S. hudsonius (Gmelin)‡.
1. Sciuropterus volucella.
Mus volans, Linnæus, Syst. Nat. i. p. 85 (1776, ex Ray, nec Sciurus volans,Linnæus,tom. cit. p.88) §1.
* P. Z. S. 1876, p. 76.
† In Coues and Allen’s “Monographs of North-American Rodentia,” Report U.S. Geol. Surv. of the Territories, vol. xi. (1877).
‡ The works of Pallas (Nov. Sp. Glir.) and of Gmelin (Syst. Nat. i.) are both dated 1788; but the former is quoted in the latter, and must consequently have been first published.
§ Mus volans is founded on the Sciurus americanus volans of Ray, while Sciurus volans (ex Seba) is the
BIOL. CENTR.-AMER. Mamm. Vol. 1, June 1880. R
