SCIURUS. 123
even erroneous descriptions of some previous writers; and after an examination of the types of no less than forty-nine nominal species, I was enabled in 1878 to throw some further light on the subject*, as well as to confirm several of Mr. Allen’s identifications; and most of my rectifications have since been frankly accepted by that gentleman.†. I was then only able to recognize twelve valid species of Neotropical Squirrels, of which nine have been received from Central America, three appearing to be peculiar to our subregion. This proportion shows that in the New World Sciurus is an essentially Nearctic type. Arrived in the tropics, it has developed an endless series of varieties and a considerable number of species; but very few new forms are found when we penetrate further into the South-American continent.
The following are the best characters which I can find for the nine Central-American Squirrels which appear to be specifically separable:—
1. S. carolinensis. Average length of head and body 10"; of tail-vertebræ about 8". Upper parts grey or brownish grey, the middle of the back brownish, a rufous lateral stripe usually present; lower parts white. Tail moderate, washed with white, the hairs yellowish brown or whitish, with narrow black rings, broader black subterminal bands, and white tips.
2. S. arizonensis. Average length about 12"·50, of tail about 11". Upper parts grey, more or less mixed with yellowish brown, especially along the middle of the back; lower parts pure white. Tail long, very bushy, strongly washed with white, the hairs tawny or fulvous, each with two narrow and one broader black band and a long white tip.
3. S. griseoflavus. Average length (in skin) about 13"·50, of tail 10"·25. Upper parts nearly uniform yellowish grey, the narrow black rings and minute whitish tips of the hairs merely obscuring the general tint produced by their broad pale-brown median bands. Lower parts yellowish red, the hairs in one specimen obscurely ringed with black. Tail bushy, strongly washed with white; the hairs yellowish or pale brown, each with two or three narrow and one broader black band succeeded by a long white tip.
4. S. variegatus. Average length about 10"·50, of tail 8"·75. Pelage somewhat soft, with a good deal of under-fur. Upper parts grey or reddish grey, the hairs black, tipped or ringed and tipped with white or red. Lower parts deep red, orange, or white. Tail black, washed with white, the hairs usually rufous at their bases, with black rings and white tips.
5. S. hypopyrrhus. Average length about 11"·75, of tail 10". Pelage close-lying and rather glossy, with little under-fur. Upper parts dark brown or black, often broadly ringed with rufous or white. Lower parts varying from deep
* “On the Squirrels of the Neotropical Region,” P. Z. S. 1878, pp. 656–670; Supplementary Note, tom. cit. p. 954. † Bull. U. S. Geol. Surv. iv. pp. 877–887.
R 2
