SCIURUS. 125
Nuevo Leon (Couch, U.S. Nat. Mus.3), Yucatan (Gaumer, Mus. Boucard), Merida (Schott, U.S. Nat. Mus.7); GUATEMALA, Volcan de Fuego &c. (Salvin5).
Concerning this well-known Nearctic form I can add hardly anything to Mr. Allen’s exhaustive account7. He distinguishes three geographical races or varieties, of which two, his “var. carolinensis“ and “var. yucatanensis,” are found within the Neotropical limits. The former, smaller and browner than the northern leucotis race, is apparently the S. carolinensis which M. de Saussure records from Mexico4, and Mr. Tomes from Guatemala5; and there are specimens from Nuevo Leon in the National Museum at Washington. Mr. Allen’s “var. yucatanensis“ is based on specimens collected at Merida, which agree in their pale coloration, the absence of rufous on their flanks, their small size, and the comparative coarseness of their pelage. He considers that this form is “possibly specifically distinct,” but remarks that the Nuevo-Leon examples are fairly intermediate; and, judging from some specimens kindly submitted to me by M. Boucard, I think he was wise in refusing it specific rank, at least for the present.
Of the geographical variations presented by the Grey Squirrel throughout its very extensive range, Mr. Allen observes they consist “mainly in decrease in size southward, and an increase in intensity of coloration, the whitish tips of the hairs of the dorsal surface seen in northern specimens being replaced by yellowish brown in the southern ones, except in the case of var. yucatanensis.”
The habits of the Grey Squirrel, as observed in Carolina, have been well described by Audubon and Bachman*. It is possessed of great agility, but is far from being timid, easily allowing a near approach. Although sometimes found in dry forests, it appears to prefer the neighbourhood of streams or of swamps, breeding either in hollow trees or in large nests composed of leaves and of Spanish moss (Tillandsia), and bringing forth two broods of five or six young ones in the course of the summer.
In Guatemala Messrs. Godman and Salvin found this Squirrel to be very common in the forests of evergreen oaks (Quercus) which grow on the volcanoes and elsewhere at an elevation of between 5000 and 7000 feet.
2. Sciurus arizonensis.
Sciurus arizonensis, Coues, Amer. Nat. i. p. 357 (1867, descr. orig.)1; Alston, P. Z. S. 1878, p. 6592; Allen, Bull. U.S. Geol. Surv. p. 8803.
Sciurus colliæi, Allen, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent. p. 738 (nec Richardson)4.
Hab. NORTH AMERICA, Arizona1.—MEXICO, Mazatlan (Bischoff, U.S. Nat. Mus.4), Tampico (de Montluc, Mus. Paris).
This handsome species was first described by Dr. Elliott Coues, who discovered it near
* Quad. N. Amer. i. pp. 55–63, pl. vii.
