126 GLIRES.
Fort Whipple, in Arizona1. It is closely allied to the last species, from which, however, both Dr. Coues and Mr. Allen consider it to be “thoroughly distinct.” The superior size, the coloration of the long heavy tail, and the absence of any lateral line appear to be constant; but in some specimens in the British and Paris Museums the grey of the upper flanks is not so clear from rufous as in the examples examined by Mr. Allen4. The specimen described by that gentleman as having “the lower surface considerably varied with irregular patches and streaks of pale yellowish rufous” gives support to the idea that further material will enable us to unite the next species with the present. In that case the name S. arizonensis will stand, Dr. Coues’s description having priority over Gray’s.
In the “Monographs of the North-American Rodentia” Mr. Allen was unfortunately misled, by imperfect descriptions and a bad figure, into identifying the Arizona Squirrel with Richardson’s Sciurus colliæi4. His kindness in lending me one of the typical specimens of S. arizonensis enabled me to point out this error2, which he has promptly rectified in his “Synonymic List of the American Sciuri“3.
3. Sciurus griseoflavus.
Macroxus griseoflavus, Gray, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 3rd ser. xx. p. 427 (1867, descr. orig.)1.
Sciurus griseoflavus, Alston, P. Z. S. 1878, p. 6602; Allen, Bull. U.S. Geol. Surv. iv. p. 8803.
? Sciurus ludovicianus, Tomes, P. Z. S. 1861, p. 281 (nec Custis)4.
Hab. MEXICO (Liebmann, Mus. Hafn.); GUATEMALA, Dueñas (Salvin4), Volcan de Fuego (Godman & Salvin, Mus. Brit.), Coban (Boucard, Mus. Paris).
I have pointed out elsewhere2 that the types of Gray’s Macroxus griseoflavus are quite distinct from those of his M. leucops (with which Mr. Allen had confused them in his Monograph), and appear to me to be either very nearly allied to the last species, if not identical with it. They differ from typical specimens of S. arizonensis in colour, the upper parts being yellowish grey and the lower parts yellowish red. But, as above mentioned, some specimens of the northern form seem to show a tendency to vary in this respect; and, judging from the analogy of other species, it seems highly probable that the two races will be found to intergrade. Mr. Allen observes that, in view of my diagnosis of S. griseoflavus, his inclination is to unite it with S. arizonensis, but that he refrains from doing so at present3; and till further material is forthcoming this appears to be the only proper course.
I have not been able to discover in the British Museum the Guatemalan specimens which Mr. Tomes referred to S. ludovicianus4; but it appears probable that they belonged to the present species, which has a general resemblance in colour to some of the numerous varieties of the Fox Squirrel. In this I am confirmed by Mr. Salvin, who tells me that he believes that Mr. Tomes applied the name to specimens of this Squirrel obtained by him in the oak-forests of the Volcan de Fuego, where he found it
