130 GLIRES.
the white-bellied colliæi phase. The rufous-bellied specimens lead us directly into
2. The rigidus type. Upper parts usually marbled with fulvous and black, the hairs being glossy brown or black with a median band of yellowish brown. Lower parts bright rufous (rigidus18), or varied with rufous and white, either symmetrically (intermedius22) or asymmetrically (nicoyanus23). In many specimens, as observed by Mr. Allen, there is a more or less marked tendency to the development of a pale grizzled lateral stripe placed high on the flanks and confining the dark dorsal area to a broad median band. From these we have every gradation into the rufous phase of
3. The dorsalis type. Upper parts with the median dorsal area black, flanks and lower parts white, fulvous, or rufous. In many individuals the hairs of the black dorsal area will be found to have concealed rings of white or fulvous; so that we have a further transition into
4. The colliæi type. Upper parts much as in the rigidus form, but usually less rufous; lower parts white (colliæi7, adolphei14) or pale fulvous (variegatoides8, griseocaudatus12, pyladei15, oculatus21). Usually the dark coloration of the back is extended over the shoulders, hips, and limbs; but in others it is confined to the middle of the back, as in the last phase, while the rufous-bellied phases lead us directly back into the rigidus form.
5. The melanius type. Upper and lower parts uniform glossy dark brown, often with irregular patches of paler brown. This is a very peculiar phase, and I have not yet seen any direct intergradation with the other varieties; but uniformity of coloration is so abnormal among the Squirrels that it seems impossible to doubt that Mr. Allen is right in regarding it as a melanism. The colour is exactly similar to that of the back of the white-bellied dorsalis varieties, in which also the paler apparently faded patches are sometimes seen. It appears to be much rarer than any of the other forms described.
With regard to the synonymy, I may observe that I have been able to examine the types of all the “species” here united, excepting that of S. hypopyrrhus, which, however, has been well described by Wagler and Wagner; it appears to be a dark variety without the usual wash of white on the tail. That of S. nigrescens only differs in having the fur of the lower parts ringed like that of the back; it agrees well with specimens in the Paris and Berlin Museums. S. colliæi and S. adolphei are synonyms for the white-bellied form above described, from which I am also unable to distinguish S. richardsoni of Gray (not of Bachman), on which both S. boothiæ and S. fuscovariegatus were founded. S. variegatoides, S. griseocaudatus, S. pyladei, and S. oculatus are all intermediate links with more or less fulvous lower parts, leading to the phase with a red or red-and-white belly, on which the names S. intermedius, S. rigidus, and Macroxus nicoyanus have been bestowed.
