SCIURUS. 131
Of the geographical distribution of the various races we can only judge from the comparatively few specimens of which the exact localities have been noted. The hypopyrrhus phase appears to be the most northern, the colliæi to prevail principally along the Pacific slopes, and the dorsalis to be the most southern. Each, however, appears to be found along with others in some part. Thus, I have seen specimens of the hypopyrrhus type from Mexico, Honduras, and Guatemala, of rigidus from Guatemala, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica, of dorsalis from Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama, and of colliæi from the west coast of Mexico and Guatemala, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica. The only localities which I know for the melanius phase are Nicaragua and Panama.
Herr J. von Fischer has described the habits of a pair of this species in captivity, under the name of S. rigidus. He found them to be strictly diurnal animals, and to be fond of lying stretched on a branch in the full sunshine. On the ground their movements were much like those of the common European Squirrel, but they were always most unwilling to leave the branches. They frequently assumed a peculiar position when feeding; holding on to a branch by their hind feet, they would hang head downwards and devour the food which they held between their fore paws20. Several examples of the dorsalis and colliæi varieties have been exhibited of late years at the Zoological Society’s Gardens, under the name of Sciurus dorsalis.
Our Plate is drawn from the typical specimens of the melanius form in the British Museum.
6. Sciurus variabilis.
Sciurus variabilis, Is. Geoffroy, Mag. de Zool. 1832, pl. iv. (descr. orig.)1; Allen, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent. p. 7682; Allen, Bull. U.S. Geol. Surv. iv. p. 8843; Alston, P. Z. S. 1878, p. 665 4.
Sciurus gerrardi, Gray, P. Z. S. 1861, p. 92, pl. xvi. (descr. orig.)5; Allen, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent. p. 7666.
Hab. PANAMA, Obispo (Hassler Exp., Mus. Coll. Harv.6 Caimito (Boucard, Mus. Paris.), Darien (Maack, Mus. Coll. Harv.6).—SOUTH AMERICA, to Bolivia and Peru4.
In the paper quoted above4 I endeavoured to show that the Squirrels generally known by the various names of S. variabilis, S. langsdorffi, S. tricolor, S. gerrardi, and some others are merely phases of one widely distributed and extremely variable species. Mr. Allen, in his Monograph, had arrived at much the same conclusion, but kept the last-named distinct on account of its smaller size and shorter ears; but on examination of a sufficient series, I was unable to find any constancy in the proportions of the ears, while the difference in size totally disappeared, as shown by the following series of measurements:—9·50, 9·75, 10·00, 10·25, 10·75, 11, 11·50, 11·75, 12·00, 12·75, 13"·00. The smaller specimens (S. variabilis, S. gerrardi, &c.) appear to prevail towards the north: but this is not constant; for a Santa-Martha example measures over 12 inches,
S 2
