SPERMOPHILUS. 135
of large internal cheek-pouches, as well as by the first digit of the fore foot being rudimentary or absent, and by cranial and dental characters. The genus is one highly characteristic of the Palæarctic and Nearctic Regions, but four species are found within our limits. These may be characterized as follows:—
1. S. annulatus. Length about 9"·50, of tail-vertebræ 6"·50. Ears large. Upper parts varied with tawny and black, shoulders and fore limbs bright rufous; lower parts fulvous. Tail long, narrow, its upper surface with broad transverse black stripes.
2. S. grammurus. Average length 12"; tail-vertebræ 8". Ears large. Upper parts mottled tawny and black; lower parts pale fulvous. Tail bushy, more than two-thirds the length of the head and body, its lower surface with three black lateral lines.
3. S. spilosomus. Average length 7", of tail-vertebræ 3". Ears almost obsolete. Upper parts reddish brown, with subquadrate whitish spots, which are not arranged in rows; lower parts yellowish white. Tail narrow, half as long as the head and body, its lower surface with one lateral black band.
4. S. mexicanus. Average length 8", of tail-vertebræ 4", Ears small but distinct. Upper parts reddish brown, with subquadrate white spots arranged in longitudinal rows; lower parts whitish. Tail fuller than in last species.
1. Spermophilus annulatus.
? Sciurus lewisi, Hamilton-Smith, Griffith’s Cuvier’s An. Kingd. iii. p. 190, pl. (1827)1.
Spermophilus annulatus, Audubon & Bachman, J. Ac. Philad. viii. p. 319 (1842, descr. orig.)2; Audubon & Bachman, Quad. N. Am. ii. p. 213, pl. lxxix.3; Allen, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent. p. 8864.
Hab. MEXICO, plains of Colima (Xantus, U.S. Nat. Mus.4).
As Mr. Allen has pointed out, this is probably the Sciurus lewisi of Hamilton-Smith1; but I agree with him in considering its identity to be too doubtful to allow of the name being used. The first trustworthy description of the species is that of Audubon and Bachman 2, founded on a specimen of uncertain origin, but believed to be “from the western prairies.” No further examples were known for many years; and Professor Baird suggested that the type (which appears to have been lost) might have been an example of a West-African Squirrel, Sciurus rufo-branchiatus, Waterhouse*—an identification which was afterwards positively made by the late Mr. Andrew Murray †. But Mr. Allen has described a specimen in the National Museum at Washington, obtained by Xantus near Colima in South-western Mexico, which proves that the animal is a true Spermophile, though very Sciurine in general appearance. The skull is unfortu-
* Mamm. N. Am. p. 327. † Geogr. Distr. Mamm. p. 359.
