138 GLIRES.
against the attacks of the Coyote and other enemies. If the entrance happens to be in an exposed place, it is sometimes fortified with thorny pieces of the mesquite and cacti. Though somewhat companionable, each, as a rule, seems to have its own house. Like other mammals, it is most above ground in the morning and evening in search of food; yet it is the least affected by the heat of the midday sun. It is omnivorous. Its bed is a globular mass, lined with soft material, and has but one entrance”4.
4. CYNOMYS.
Cynomys, Rafinesque, Amer. Monthly Mag. ii. p. 45 (1817, fide Baird, Mamm. N. Am. p. 329).
Anisonyx, Rafinesque, loc. cit.
The well-known “Prairie-Dogs” or Prairie-Marmots of North America are very closely allied to the Spermophiles, but are of more thickset form, and have well-developed claws on all their toes. Their cheek-pouches are shallow; their grinding-teeth are placed obliquely, so that they converge strongly behind; and their skulls present slight but constant differences.
Only two species are known, Cynomys ludovicianus and the western C. columbianus. The former, which is the only species hitherto recorded from Mexico, may be readily distinguished by its size, its reddish-brown colour, and its comparatively long tail, which is brownish-black towards the tip, instead of whitish, as in C. columbianus. It averages about 12 inches in length of head and body; and the tail-vertebræ measure about 3½ inches.
1. Cynomys ludovicianus.
Arctomys ludovicianus, Ord, Guthrie’s Geogr., 2nd Amer. ed., pp. 292, 302 (1817, descr. orig., fide Baird, Mamm. N. Am. p. 331)1.
Cynomys ludovicianus, Baird, Rep. U.S. Mex. Bound. Surv. ii. Mamm. p. 392; Dugès, La Nat. i. p. 1373; Allen, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent. p. 8924.
Perrito, Perrito del campo,of Mexicans2 3.
Hab. NORTH AMERICA, east of the Rocky Mountains, from lat. 49° southwards4.—MEXICO, Chihuahua (Kennerly2, Dugès3).
The range of the Missouri Prairie-Marmot extends to the Mexican State of Chihuahua, where its occurrence has been recorded by the naturalists of the United-States Boundary Survey and by Dr. Dugès3. Dr. Kennerly says that to the west of the Rio Grande it was observed as far as the Sierra Madre2.
Much has been written on the habits of the Prairie-Dog, of its “towns” or “villages,” and of its strange fellow citizens, the Prairie-Owl (Speotyto cunicularia) and the Rattle-Snake (Crotalophorus confluentus), with which it is popularly but erroneously believed
