140 GLIRES.
Hab. PALÆARCTIC REGION, North America, from Alaska and Canada southwards2.—MEXICO (Berlandier2), Sierra Madre (U.S. Bound. Surv.5), Matamoras (Berlandier, U.S. Nat Mus.5).
The naturalists of the United-States Survey met with the Beaver on the Mexican boundary, it being especially plentiful in the valley of the Gila river; the most elevated point at which they found its traces was in the Colorado Cañon, in the Sierra Madre, about 5000 feet above the sea-level5. Mr. Allen observes that he has not been able to ascertain its exact limit south of the Rio Grande, but that it is well ascertained that its range extends for some distance into Mexico; and he adds that the manuscripts of the late Dr. Berlandier attest its existence in various parts of that Republic2. The only preserved Mexican specimens of which I have been able to learn are two skulls obtained by the last-named naturalist at Matamoras, and now in the United-States national collection at Washington2 5.
Fam. III. MURIDÆ.
1. MUS.
Mus, Linnæus, Syst. Nat. i. p. 79 (1766), as restricted by Waterhouse, Zool. Voy. ‘Beagle,’ i. p. 75.
As already remarked, the Muridæ of Central America are almost exclusively Nearctic in their affinities. The first genus however, that of restricted Mus, throws no light on geographical distribution; for none of its members are indigenous to the New World, although four house-haunting species have been unwittingly introduced from Europe. The true Rats and Mice differ from all the native American forms in the structure of their molars, in which each transverse ridge, in an unworn state, is composed of three tubercles, instead of showing two only, as in Hesperomys and its allies. The species established in our subregion may be recognized by the following characters:—
1. M. rattus. Tail longer than the head and body, ears half as long as the head; upper parts greyish black, lower parts hardly paler. Length of head and body about 7", of tail 7"·50.
2.M. alexandrinus. Tail and ears as in last species; upper parts dark grey, lower parts and feet yellowish white. Head and body about 7", tail 8".
3.M. decumanus. Tail shorter than head and body, ears one third the length of the head; upper parts greyish brown, lower parts greyish white, feet dusky. Head and body 9", tail 7"·50.
4. M. musculus. Tail about as long as head and body, ears half the length of the head; upper parts brownish grey, lower parts slightly paler. Head and body about 3"·50, tail 3"·50.
