HESPEROMYS. 145
defined by Dr. Coues as having usually a proportionally shorter tail and a less rufescent coloration than the typical H. leucopus of the Eastern States; but the comparison of an immense series of specimens in the United-States Museum has enabled him to show that these characters are very far from being constant, and that they cannot be regarded as marking even a pure geographical race; “for undoubtedly leucopus occurs throughout the United-States range of ‘sononiensis,’ and everywhere the intergradation is perfect”9.
The exact southern range of the White-footed Mouse remains to be traced; but it certainly extends far into Mexico. Sallé’s collections in the British Museum include an example of the sonoriensis variety, labelled “South Mexico;” and another of the true leucopus phase is from Oaxaca. In the warmer lowland regions of the republic, however, it is probably replaced by the next species, H. aztecus.
Of the habits of the White-footed Mouse in Northern Mexico Mr. J. A. Clark observes that “This animal seems to live, as circumstances may determine, either on the ground or in the hollows of trees… . . This or an allied species builds globular nests of fine grass, lined with feathers and other soft material, on the opuntia and other chapparel. They are quite numerous in some sections, and, seen at a distance hanging on thorny branches, resemble old bird-nests. The entrance, usually at the side or bottom, is to all appearance so entirely closed as to suggest the question, By what built, or for what purpose, is such a contrivance? I never saw one in an unfinished state, nor the animal at work; labour is perhaps performed after nightfall”7.
3. Hesperomys aztecus.
Hesperomys aztecus, de Saussure, Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1860, p. 105, pl. ix. fig. 4 (descr. orig.)1.
Hesperomys (Vesperomys) aztecus, Coues, Proc. Ac. Philad. 1874, p. 1802; Coues, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent. p. 1003.
Hab. NORTH AMERICA, California3.—MEXICO (de Saussure1, U.S. Nat. Mus.3).
The specific distinction of the Aztec Mouse of M. de Saussure has been lately confirmed by Dr. Coues, the Smithsonian Institution having received spirit specimens collected at Cape St. Lucas, California. Besides the rich rusty red of the flanks of the adult (for the young appear to be grey like those of H. leucopus), the species may be recognized by the extension of the darker colouring to the basal third of the metatarsus and by the long, nearly naked, and almost unicolorous tail. Dr. Coues observes that “there is no reasonable doubt that the animal is a subtropical offset of H. leucopus, modified just as Neotoma ferruginea has been [from N. fuscipes]; but, at the same time, the differentiation has proceeded so far that we are bound to place the animal on specific footing, at any rate until intermediate specimens are forthcoming”3. Till then, also, we can say nothing as to the distribution of the species in Central America, the only known Mexican specimens being without exact localities.
BIOL. CENTR.-AMER., Mamm. Vol. 1,August 1880. U
