146 GLIRES.
4. Hesperomys aureolus.
Mus (Calomys) aureolus, Audubon & Bachman, Journ. Ac. Philad. vi. p. 302 (1842, descr. orig.)1.
Hesperomys (Vesperomys) aureolus, Coues, Proc. Ac. Philad. 1874, p. 1802; Coues, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent. p. 913.
Hesperomys nuttalli, Baird, Mamm. N. Am. p. 467 (nec Harlan?*)4.
?Hesperomys fulvescens, de Saussure, Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1860, p. 102 (descr. orig.)5.
Hab. NORTH AMERICA, from South Carolina southwards3.—MEXICO (de Saussure5; Sallé, Mus. Brit.).
I have very little hesitation in identifying M. de Saussure’s Hesperomys fulvescens with the Golden Mouse of the Southern United States. In his original description it is remarked that “pour la couleur elle se rapproche beaucoup de l’H. nuttalli, Harl., mais elle a la queue plus longue, ses oreilles ne sont pas ferrugineuses et la couleur du poil paraît être un peu plus foncée”5. In the British Museum there are two Mexican Mice, collected by Sallé, which agree very well with M. de Saussure’s description, but are larger, and have the tail, though still long, proportionally shorter, while their ears are concolorous with the back, exactly as in H. aureolus. Dr. Coues’s table of measurements of a series of the latter species shows a considerable variability in proportions, though the average length of tail is decidedly shorter than in the Mexican examples under consideration3. Nevertheless, when we consider the intermediate specimens and remember the immense extent to which other American Mice have been shown to vary in this respect, we must hesitate to found specific distinction on such a character, and better characters must, I think, be pointed out before H. fulvescens can be recognized as more than a long-tailed race of H. aureolus.
5. Hesperomys californicus.
Mus californicus, Gambel, Proc. Ac. Philad. 1848, p. 78 (descr. orig.)1.
Hesperomys (Vesperomys) californicus, Coues, Proc. Ac. Philad. 1874, p. 1802; Coues, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent. p. 983.
Hab. NORTH AMERICA, California1 3.—MEXICO, Tehuantepec (Boucard, Mus. Brit.).
As Dr. Coues remarks, this large long-eared Mouse has much the appearance of a half-grown Neotoma. First discovered by Gambel at Monterey, its range seems to extend southwards to Tehuantepec; for a specimen obtained by the British Museum from that locality, through M. Boucard, only differs from Californian examples in the same collection in being rather paler and more ashy in colour. All these specimens appear to be larger than those examined by Dr. Coues, giving an average length
* Although Harlan’s description of his Arvicola nuttalli (Am. Monthly Journ. 1832, p. 446) agrees with this species, it is also applicable to a rufous specimen of H. leucopus; I have therefore followed Mr. Allen (Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. ii. p. 180) and Dr. Coues in retaining Audubon and Bachman’s name.
