HESPEROMYS. 147
(in skin) of 5"·35, and of tail 5"·24, against his respective measurements, of 4"·65 and 4"·55. In some the tail is much more fully haired than in others.
6. Hesperomys mexicanus.
Hesperomys mexicanus, de Saussure, Rev. et Mag. de Zool. 1860, p. 103, pl. xi. figs. 1, 1 a (descr. orig.)1.
Hab. MEXICO (de Saussure1).
I know nothing of this species save M. de Saussure’s original description and Dr. Coues’s critical remarks, which will be treated of under the next species.
Nothing has been recorded of its habits; nor does M. de Saussure mention the localities from which his specimens were obtained.
7. Hesperomys melanophrys.
Hesperomys (Vesperomys) melanophrys, Coues, Proc. Ac. Philad. 1874, p. 181 (descr. orig.)1; Coues, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent. p. 1022.
Hab. MEXICO, Tehuacan, Tehuantepec (Sumichrast, U.S. Nat. Mus.1 2).
It is not without much doubt that I keep this species even provisionally distinct from the last.
The three specimens on which Dr. Coues founded his species presented marked discrepancies from the original description of H. mexicanus, having the tail considerably longer than the head and body, the lower parts pure white, and the eye surrounded by a conspicuous black ring1 2. But Dr. Coues has described three other examples, obtained for the Smithsonian Institution by the same collector in the same part of Mexico, which he himself regards as throwing great doubt on the distinction of the two species. Considerably smaller than either M. de Saussure’s or Dr. Coues’s types, these individuals want the black eye-ring, two of them have the tail shorter than the head and body, and one has the lower parts slightly tinged with fulvous. “Much more material than that now in our possession,” says Dr. Coues, “will be required to determine the limits of variation of this large grey leucopus-like Mouse of Mexico and to fix the species on secure basis”2. It appears to me that we have probably here to do with one large southern species of the subgenus Vesperomys, characterized by its grey fur having a peculiar hoary lustre, caused by the pale extreme tips of the hairs, and varying in proportional length of tail and in the presence or absence of a black ring round the eye. But, as I have not myself had an opportunity of comparing specimens, I refrain from definitely uniting them.
U 2
