148 GLIRES.
8. Hesperomys sumichrasti. (Tab. XIV. fig. 2.)
Hesperomys [Nyctomys] sumichrasti, de Saussure, Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1860, p. 107, pl. ix. figs. 2, 3 (descr. orig.)1.
Hesperomys (Myoxomys) salvinii, Tomes, P. Z. S. 1861, p. 285, pl. xxxi. (descr. orig.)2.
Hab. MEXICO, east of Cordilleras (de Saussure1; Sallá, Mus. Brit.); BRITISH HONDURAS, Belize (Blancaneaux, Mus. Brit.); GUATEMALA, Dueñas (Salvin, Mus. Brit.2).
Although I have not had an opportunity of examining the types of M. de Saussure’s H. sumichrasti, I have no doubt that he and Mr. Tomes had the same animal before them, and that each separately described the same species. The only point of difference in their descriptions is as to size, the former giving the length of the head and body in his two specimens as 100 millims. and 88 millims. respectively (=3"·95 and 3"·50), while that of Mr. Tomes’s type was 5"·50. But one at least of the Swiss zoologist’s examples was immature, as shown by the colour; and Mr. Tomes’s was an unusually large individual; for in a number of spirit specimens the length varies from 4·90 to 5·30 inches, while one example from British Honduras agrees almost exactly with the measurements of M. de Saussure’s larger specimen. In every other particular—in the hairy almost bushy tail terminating in a pencil of hairs, in the short broad hind feet with proportionally long second and fifth toes, in the nearly uniform light rufous of the upper parts, and in the peculiar character of the lower fur being pure white to the roots—the nominal species agree with one another, and differ so much from all the other known forms of Hesperomys that each of their describers has proposed a new subgenus for his discovery. In point of fact Nyctomys is one of the best-marked of all the subgenera of Hesperomys.
In Guatemala Messrs. Salvin and Godman tell me that H. sumichrasti is very common in the neighbourhood of Dueñas, where the Indians will procure almost any number of specimens for a trifle. Most of theirs were obtained in this way; but they sometimes found it themselves in the hedgerows which surround the coffee-plantations of the neighbourhood; and on one occasion Mr. Salvin poked one out of a nest with a stick, when the Mouse dropped into the sleeve of his coat, to the astonishment of both performers.
The figure in the Plate is taken from one of the Dueñas specimens.
9. Hesperomys palustris.
Mus palustris, Harlan, Am. Journ. Science, xxxi. p. 386 (1837, descr. orig.)1.
Hesperomys (Oryzomys) palustris, Baird, Mamm. N. Am. p. 4822; Coues, Proc. Ac. Philad. 1874, p. 1843; Coues, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent. p. 1134.
Hab. NORTH AMERICA, from New Jersey southwards4.—MEXICO (Sallé, Mus. Brit.), Tehuantepec (Sumichrast, Postell, U.S. Nat. Mus.4).
The Common Rice-Mouse of the Southern United States is the type of Baird’s sub-
