



104 UNGULATA. 

2. Tapirns dowi. (Tab. VIII. figg. 3-5; Tab. IX.) 

Tapirus bairdi, Sclater, P. Z. S. 1867^ p. 473 ^; op. cit. 1872, p. 635, pi. li.^; Gervais, Journ. de 

Zool. ii. p. 26, pi. i. (nee Gill)'. 

Elasmognathus dowi, GiU, Amer. Journ. Scienee, 1. p, 142 (1870, descr. orig.)*. 

T«i?irM* </oM;i, Alston, P.Z. S. 1879, p. 666'. 

Eab. Guatemala {Bow, U.S. Wat. Mus.'^) ; Nicaragua, Volcan Viejo (Dow,Mus. Brit.^ ^), 

Corinto, Pacific coast (Bawes,Mus. Brit., ex Viv. Zool. Soc.^ ^) ; Costa Eica, Atlantic 

coast (Carmiol, Mus. Par.^). 

I have given full details above of the discovery of this very remarkable animal by 

Dr. Gill *, and of the further information which I have been able to add as to its 

characters. Last year I briefly announced that the skull sent by Captain Dow to 
Mr. Sclater as that of T. hairdi was really referable to T. dowi, and that the same was 

the case with the young specimen obtained by the Zoological Society from Corinto (a 

small town near Realejo) ^, and now preserved in the British Museum. As Dr. Gill 
mentioned no precise localities, and as the latter places are both in the western part of 

Nicaragua, I suggested that the range of Dow's Tapir might prove to be confined to the 

Pacific slopes of that State and of Guatemala ^. 

Since then my attention has been directed to the figures given by the late Professor 

Gervais of a skull of " Tapirus hairdi " in the Paris Museum, described as " provenant 
de Panama." His illustrations at once suggested that this was another example of 

T. dowi ; and on applying to Professor Milne-Edwards I was supplied with drawings of 
the fronto-nasal region, which proved that this was the case. I also learned from 
M. Milne-Edwards that the skin to which this skull belonged is also preserved in the 
French national collection, that they had been obtained in exchange from the British 
Museum, and that the locality of Panamawas given on the authority of the late Dr. Gray. 
After some trouble I ascertained that the specimen in question had been originally 

obtained by the British Museum through Mr. Salvin ; and I learn from that gentleman 

that it was sent to him from Costa Pica by J. Carmiol, who distinctly stated in his 

letter that it was the Banta of the Atlantic coast of that State. My suggestion that the 
two forms might represent one another on the opposite slopes of the watershed is thus 
negatived, and it is evident that they are found together, at least in some districts; 

for, as stated above, Baird's Tapir has also been received from the Atlantic coast of Costa 

Rica. The exact distribution of the two animals must be left for future investigation 

; 

but, as I have alreadyremarked, the range of Dow's Tapirappears to be more restricted 
than that of its ally, not extending, as far as we kuow^ at present, either into Mexico 
or Panama. 

Messrs.Godman and Salvin send me the following notes on the Tapirs of Guatemala, 
which may refer in part to the last species :

— 

" Tapirs are found in the forests of both sides of the Cordillera ; but they are not met
