



DICOTYLES. 109 

Hah. British Honduras {Temple) ; Guatemala, forests of Northern Vera Paz, Volcan de 

Atitlan (Salvin & Godman) ; Nicaragua (Belt) ; Costa Eica (Frantzius^).—South 
America to Paraguay ^. 

As has been already remarked, the White-lipped Peccary was first scientifically 

described by Azara, and systematically named by Cuvier ^ ; but it was well known as 

a distinct species to the older voyagers to Central and South America. Lionel Wafer 

thus distinguished it in 1681 :

— 

" The Warree is another kind of Wild-Hog they have, which is also very good Meat. 

It has little Ears, but very great Tusks; and the Hair or Bristles 'tis covered with 

are long, strong and thickset, like a coarse Furr all over its Body. The Warree is fierce, 
and fights with the Pecary, or any other Creature that comes in his way. The Indians 
hunt these also as the other, and manage their Flesh the same way, except only as to 
what concerns the Navel; the Singularity of which is peculiar to the Pecary"^. 
The range of this species is considerably less extensive than that of the Collared 
Peccary ; it does not appear to go further south than Paraguay, and the most northern 

locality hitherto recorded is British Honduras. Mr. R, Temple, Chief Justice of Belize, 
gave a good description of the " Warree " of that colony in a letter to Mr. Sclater, 
and added the following spirited sketch of its pugnacious habits :

— 

"The Warree is a far more ferocious animal than the Peccary; but his courage 

perhaps may arise from a principle not quite a stranger to the human breast—a con- 

sciousness of being well supported ; for, as I have said, they are always seen in multi- 

tudes. If you meet a flock of Warrees in the bush, and you take no notice of them, it 

is probable that they will take no notice of you. But if your intentions are hostile, and 
your design is to transfer one of them from his native wilderness to your kitchen, you 
must take care to place yourself in a safe position before you carry your design into 

execution. A gentleman, not long since, shot aWarree without having taken the neces- 

sary precautions ; the remainder of the flock instantly pursued him, and if he had not 
managed to climb into a tree he would have been torn in pieces. But he was kept a 

prisoner in that leafy asylum for many hours, the surviving AVarrees being bent on 

revenging the death of their companion. Even when the flock went a little distance to 

feed, they left two or three to stand guard at the foot of the tree. The hunter has no 

difficulty in tracing the Peccary and the Warree by the strong odour which prevails 

wherever they have been"f. 
In Guatemala, Messrs. Godman and Salvin inform me that the Warree is found in the 

vast forests of Northern Vera Paz, which are, in fact, an extension of those of British 

Honduras, just spoken of. Here these animals go about in large droves, and have the 

habits attributed to them elsewhere. "On the Pacific side of Guatemala this species is 

* Dampier's Voyages, iii. pp. 328, 329. The last statement as to the dorsal gland is of course erroneous, 

t P. Z. S. 1860, pp. 206, 207.
