



114 TJNGULATA. 

1. C. macrotis. Anterior and posterior portions of antlers both branched ; meta- 

tarsal gland on u'p'per portion of metatarsus, 4" to 6" long, covered with 

tawny hairs. Coat dark grey ; tail white, with a black tip. Length of head 

and body 60" to 70". 

2. a virginianus. Antlers curved forwards, with tines on their upper posterior 

surface; metatarsal gland on lower portion of metatarsus, J" to 1" long, 

surrounded with white hairs. Coat tawny grey or reddish ; face dark ; tail 

long, tapered, grey above, white beneath. Length 55" to 65". 

3. a toltecus. Antlers short, upright, nearly straight, and semipalmate, with 

basal and terminal tines; metatarsal gland absent. Coat "dark chestnut- 

brown," face blackish, belly white ; tail long, truncated,, brown above, white 

below. Length 40" to 46". 

4. C. rufinus. Antlers simple spikes; metatarsal gland absent. Coat bright 

rufous, passing into blackish brown on the face and legs ; lighter, but not 

white, beneath. Length about 30". 

1. Cariacus macrotis. 

Cervus macrotis, Say, Narr. Long's Exped. ii. p. 88 (1823, descr. orig. [fide Baird])'; Baird, 
Mamm. N. Am. p. 656' j Eep. U.S. Mex. Bound. 'Surv. ii., Mamm. p. 51'j Caton, Ante- 

lope and Deer of Amer. p. 93 *. 

Cariacus macrotis, Brooke, P. Z. S. 1878, p. 921 ^ 

?AcuUiame, Hernandez, Rer. Med. Nov. Hisp. p. 325. 

Hab. NoKTH Ameeica, west of Missouri River, from British Columbia southwards*.

— 

Mexico, Corralitos, San-Luis Mountains, Sierra Madre {Kennerly^). 

The well-known Mule Deer, or Black-tailed Deer, of the Western United States 

extends its range into the northern provinces of Mexico, where it was observed by 

the naturalists of the Boundary Survey in the States of Chihuahua and Sonora. Of 

its distribution there Dr. Kennerly observes that the members of the Survey did not 

meet with it till they reached the valley of the Corralitos River, and even there it 

was not very common. In the San-Luis Mountains and the Sierra Madre, however, it 
was very numerous, being at least as plentiful as the Virginian Deer; but it was 

remarked to be more easily disturbed and driven from its accustomed haunts than 

that species. " It is somewhat curious that we did not observe the Black-tailed Deer 

after leaving the Sierra Madre, although it is found in great numbers in Cahfornia. 
The belt of country traversed by us, included between that mountain and the 111th 

meridian, seemed to be almost if not entirely without this animal, while in several 

localities the Virginian Deer and Antelope were both very common " ^. I have been 

unable to trace the occurrence of theMule Deer further to the south ; and as it appears
