



118 imGMJIiATA. 

So long ago as 1851 Audubon and Bachman made incidental mention of a small Deer 

from Yucatan and Southern Mexico in which the metatarsal gland was absent*; and 

nine years later M. de Saussure gave the name of Cervus toltecus to a small Cervine 

skull obtained near Orizaba ^. In a paper read before the New-York Lyceum of Natural 

History in 1872, Mr. W. J. Hays described a small Deer without metatarsal tufts as 

Cervus yucatanensis^ ; and in 1877 Judge Caton, who probablywas not acquainted with 
Mr. Hays's paper, gave the name of Cervus acaj)ulcensis to what is evidently the same 

form^. The dimensions of M. de Saussure's typical skull would appear to indicate a 
somewhat smaller animal than is shown by the measurements of the American writers 

; 

but in this respect there appears to be considerable latitude. The form of the nearly 

straight flattened Eoe-like antler figured by the Swiss zoologist agrees so well with 

Messrs. Hays and Caton's descriptions and illustrations as to leave no doubt in my 
mind that all three types were specifically identical. 
Nothing has been recorded of the habits of the Yucatan Deer in its native country 

; 

but it appears to be not unfrequently brought alive to the United States, and to thrive 

in captivity. Mr. Hays remarks that the antlers are shed in the month of March. 
Judge Caton first met with the species in Woodward's Gardens at San Francisco, and 

afterwards kept it in his own park, where he obtained hybrids with the Virginian Deer 
and with another species which he believed to be a native of Ceylonf. Of its habits in 

captivity he remarks :—" While I cannot charge the Acapulco Deer with having a 
wicked disposition, it certainly has more courage and combativeness than any of our 

other Deer, and corresponds in these respects with the Ceylon Deer They do 
not hesitate to attack Deer of the other species three times their size and strength, and 
beat them by mere force of courage and will" ^. 
Mr. Allen informs me that the specimen in the collection of Harvard College is a 

nearly full-grown female, and agrees in every respect with the characters pointed out 
by Judge Caton. He adds that " the skull diifers very much in its proportions from 
that of C. virginianus, especially in the relative shortness of the facial regions ; in other 
words, the skull is broad and short, as stated by Caton." This agrees well with the 
measurements of the typical skull of C. toltecus as given by M. de Saussure. 

4. Cariacus rufinus. 

Cervus rufinus, Bourcier & Pucheran, Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1851, p. 561 (descr, orig.)^; Pucheran, 
Arch, du Mus. vi. p. 491, pi. xxx.'; Fraatzius, Arch. f. Naturg. xxxv. 1, p. 300'. 

Cariacus rufinus, Brooke, P. Z. S. 1878, p. 925 *. 

Cervus sartorii, de Saussure, Eev. et Mag. Zool. 1860, p. 252 (descr. orig.)'. 

? Cervus [Coassus)— ?, Moore, P. Z. S. 1859, p. 51 \ 

* Quad. N, Amer. ii. p. 200. 
t "What Mr. Caton's " Ceylon Deer " canbe I am quite at a loss to know ; from what lie says itwouldappear 

to he a Cariacus, in which case there must, of course, be some error as to its nativity.
