



CAEIACUS. 119 

? Temamaqame, Macatl chichiltic, Hernandez^ Eer. Med. Nov. Hisp. p. 325. 

Guisisil and Cabrito del Monte of Guatemalans. 
" 

Cabra del Monte of Costa-Eicans. 

ffah. Mexico, Mirador (Sartorius ^, Mus. JDarmst.^) ; Guatemala, Coban in Vera Paz 
and Pacific coast generally [Godman & Salvin); Honduras {Leyland^); Costa 
EiCA (Bogers, Mus. Brit.), Pacaca, Guaitil {Frantzius^).—South Ameeica to 
Ecuador ^. 

The Black-faced Brocket belongs to a small group of species of the Neotropical sub- 

genus Coassus which are very closely allied to one another, but appear to differ constantly 

in size and coloration. Of these it has much the most northern range, extending 
throughout the greater part of Central America, There appears to be little doubt that 

it was the Temamazame of Hernandez *; and still less that the Mirador skull on which 
M. de Saussure bestowed the provisional name of Cervus sartorii^ belonged to this 

species, for Dr. v. Frantzius informs us that two specimens of C. rufinus from the same 

locality have been presented by Herr Sartorius to the Darmstadt Museum^. 

I am informed by Messrs. Godman and Salvin that " The Guisisil, as this little Deer 

is called throughout the Pacific coast region of Guatemala, is well known to hunters, 

but, owing to its habits of constantly remaining in the undergrowth of the denser forest, 

it is an animal not easy to secure. By all accounts it is not uncommon in the forests 
which spread over the slopes of the volcanoes to the Pacific Ocean, but we only once 
came across it ourselves; this was in the forests of the sides of the Volcan de 

Atitlan, about 4000 feet above the sea, when a dog belonging to one of the Indian 

hunters of our partyfound a half-decomposed carcass near the trackwe were following. 
" In the neighbourhood of Coban, in Vera Paz, where it is called the Cabrito del 
Monte, it used to be common ; and once we shot a young one in second-growth forest 

not far from the town. At that time (1861) this Deer, the Coche de Monte (Bicotyles 

tajacu), Tepescuinte {Coelogenyspaca), and k.^outi [JDasy^proctapunctata) were the chief 
ground-game of the Indian hunter. Probably now the animal is more scarce, and one 
must go further afield to find it." 
Further to the south this species is found in the warmer parts of Costa Eica, where 

it bears the same name of Cabra del Monte, or " forest-goat" ^. South of the Isthmus 

its range extends through Colombia, whence examples havebeen receivedby the British 
Museum, to Ecuador, where the type specimen was obtained byM. Bourcier i. Further 

south than this its existence has not been established, for Dr. Burmeister's suggested 

identification with the Brazilian G. nanusf ofLund requires confirmation. 

Dr. V. Frantzius remarks that the Black-faced Brocket appears to agree in its habits, 

as well as in the colour of the fawns, with what has been recorded of its Brazilian ally, 

C. rufus (F. Cuvier), by Burmeister and Eengger ^. 

* Cf. suprd, p. 113, footnote. t Thiere Brasil. i. p. 319.
