



120 GLIEES. 

Order VIL GLIRES. 

Suborder I. SIMPLICIDENTATA. 

In this the dominant suborder of Rodents* the aspect of the Central-American fauna 

is of a very mixed character, Neotropical types preponderating in some groups and 

ISTearctic in others. 
In the first section, the Sciuromorpha, this is well illustrated in the Sciuridae, where 
we find that our representatives of Sciurus are mostly southern forms, that Tamias is 

absent, and that Cynomys just crosses our northern boundary ; while, on the other hand, 
such characteristically northern genera as Sciuropterus and Spermophilus are well esta- 

blished in Mexico. The family Haplodontidse is not represented ; but the Beaver, sole 

surviving member of the Castoridse, is found along the Nearctic frontier. 
Of the Myomorpha the Muridse are decidedly Nearctic. Passing over the introduced 

species of Mus^ we find that the known Central-American species of Hesperomys all 
belong to the North-American subgenera or sections of that large genus, except a few 
which appear to be peculiar to the subregion. The allied Nearctic genera Ochetodon, 
Sigmodon, Weotoma, and Arvicola are all represented ; while the Neotropical forms 
Brymomys, Solochilus, and Beithrodon seem to be totally absent. The Geo- 
myidse probably find their greatest development in Central America, but are also 

spread over most of North America, whereas only one or two forms are known to 
extend south of the Isthmus of Panama. The Nearctic family Zapodidse is not 

represented. 
In the Hystricomorpha we have a characteristic Neotropical type in the Dasyproc- 

tidsB, and the only Central-American species of Hystricidee belongs to the South-American 
genus Synetheres. On the other hand, the great groups which lend such a peculiar 

character to the Neotropical fauna are either poorly represented or wanting ; the large 
family of OctodontidaB has only a single form, Myo]3otamus, and the Chinchillidae, 
Dinomyidse, and Caviidee are conspicuous by their absence. 
On balancing the afiinities of the whole order, the Nearctic types of Eodents must 
be considered to preponderate in numbers in Central America, notwithstanding the 
presence of some very characteristic Neotropical forms. 

* The arrangement of the Eodents here adopted is essentially that proposed in my paper " On the Classifi- 

cation of the Order Glires " (P. Z. S. 1876, pp. 61-98, pi. iv.).
