



SCIUEUS. 125 

Nuevo Leon (Couch, U.S. Fat. Mus.% Yucatan (Gaumer, Mus. Boucard), Merida 

(Schott, U.S. Fat. Mus.'^); Guatemala, Volcan de Fuego &c. (Salvin^). 

Concerning this well-known Nearctic form I can add hardly anything to Mr. Allen's 
exhaustive account''^. He distinguishes three geographical races or varieties, of which 
two, his " var. carolinenm " and " var. yucatanensis" are found within the Neotropical 

limits. The former, smaller and browner than the northern leucotis race, is apparently 
the S. carolinensis which M. de Saussure records from Mexico^, and Mr, Tomes from 
Guatemala^ ; and there are specimens from Nuevo Leon in the National Museum at 
Washington. Mr. Allen's "var. yucatanensis" is based on specimens collected at 
Merida, which agree in their pale coloration, the absence of rufous on their flanks, their 
small size, and the comparative coarseness of their pelage. He considers that this form 

is " possibly specifically distinct," but remarks that the Nuevo-Leon examples are 

fairly intermediate; and, judging fi-om some specimens kindly submitted to me by 
M. Boucard, I think he was wise in refusing it specific rank, at least for the 

present. 
Of the geographical variations presented by the Grey Squirrel throughout its very 

extensive range, Mr. Allen observes they consist " mainly in decrease in size southward, 
and an increase in intensity of coloration, the whitish tips of the hairs of the dorsal sur- 

face seen in northern specimens being replaced by yellowish brown in the southern ones, 

except in the case of var. yucatanenmr 
The habits of the Grey Squirrel, as observed in Carolina, have been well described by 
Audubon and Bachman*. It is possessed of great agility, but is far from being timid, 

easily allowing a near approach. Although sometimes found in dry forests, it appears 

to prefer the neighbourhood of streams or of swamps, breeding either in hollow trees 

or in large nests composed of leaves and ofSpanish moss {Tillandsia), and bringing forth 
two broods of five or six young ones in the course of the summer. 

In Guatemala Messrs. Godman and Salvin found this Squirrel to be very common in 

the forests of evergreen oaks (Quercus) which grow on the volcanoes and elsewhere at 
an elevation of between 5000 and 7000 feet. 

2. Sciurus arizonensis. 

Sciurus arizonensis, Coues, Amer. Nat. i. p. 357 (1867, descr. orig.)* ; Alston, P. Z. S. 1878, p. 659 ""; 

Allen, Bull. U.S. Geol. Surv. p. 880 ^ 

Sciurus collicei, Allen, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent, p. 738 (nee Richardson)*. * 

Eab. North America, Arizona ^.—Mexico, Mazatlan (Bischoff, U.S. Nat. Mus.% Tam^ 

pico {de Montluc, Mus. Paris). 

This handsome species was first described by Dr. Elliott Coues, who discovered itnear 

* Quad. N. Amer. i. pp. 55-63, pi. vii.
