



126 GLIEES. 

Fort Whipple, in Arizona K It is closely allied to the last species, from which, 

however, both Dr. Coues and Mr. Allen consider it to be " thoroughly distinct." The 

superior size, the coloration of the long heavy tail, and the absence of any lateral line 

appear to be constant ; but in some specimens in the British and Paris Museums the 

grey of the upper flanks is not so clear from rufous as in the examples examined 

by Mr. Allen1 The specimen described by that gentleman as having « the lower 

surface considerably varied with irregular patches and streaks of pale yellowish rufous" 

gives support to the idea that further material will enable us to unite the next species 

with the present. In that case the name S. arizonensis will stand, Dr. Coues's descrip- 

tion having priority over Gray's. 

In the " Monographs of the North-American Rodentia" Mr. Allen was unfortunately 

misled, by imperfect descriptions and a bad figure, into identifying the Arizona 

Squirrel with Richardson's Sciurus collicei\ His kindness in lending me one of the 

typical specimens of S. arizonensis enabled me to point out this error 2, which he has 

promptly rectified in his " Synonymic List of the American Sciuri"^. 

3. Sciurus griseoflavTis. 

Macroxus griseoflavus, Gray, Ann. & Mag. Nat. Hist. 3rd ser. xx. p. 427 (1867, descr. orig.)\ 

Sciurus griseoflavm, Alston, P. Z. S. 1878, p. 660 'i Allen, Bull. U.S. Geol. Surv. iv. p. 880'. 

? Sciurus ludovicianus, Tomes, P. Z. S. 1861, p. 281 (nee Custis)*. 

Hah. Mexico {Liehmann, Mus. Hafn.); Guatemala, Duenas (Salvin"^), Volcan de Fuego 
(Godman & Sahin, Mus. Brit.), Coban {Boucard, Mus. Paris). 

I have pointed out elsewhere ^ that the types of Gray's Macroxus griseoflavus are 

quite distinct from those of his M. leucops (with which Mr. Allen had confused them 

in his Monograph), and appear to me to be either very nearly allied to the last species, 

if not identical with it. They difl"er from typical specimens of S. arizonensis in colour, 

the upper parts being yellowish grey and the lower parts yellowish red. But, as above 
mentioned, some specimens of the northern form seem to show a tendency to vary in 

this respect; and, judging from the analogy of other species, it seems highly probable 

that the two races will be found to intergrade. Mr. Allen observes that, in view ofmy 

diagnosis of *S^. griseoflavus, his inclination is to unite it with S. arizonensis, but that he 

refrains from doing so at present^; and till further material is forthcoming this appears 

to be the only proper course. 

I have not been able to discover in the British Museum the Guatemalan specimens 
which Mr. Tomes referred to S. ludovicianus ^ ; but it appears probable that they be- 
longed to the present species, which has a general resemblance in colour to some of 
the numerous varieties of the Fox Squirrel. In this I am confirmed by Mr. Salvin, 
who tells me that he believes that Mr. Tomes applied the name to specimens of this 

Squirrel obtained by him in the oak-forests of the Volcan de Fuego, where he found it
