



128 GLIEES. 

hairs being finely ringed with bright rufous and tipped with white ; nape and 
rump more strongly rufous. Lower parts bright red, orange, or white. 

Many specimens, however, which have the general appearance of aureogaster show 

the rufous subterminal ring of leucops on some part of the dorsal surface ; and in others 
we find the red nape and rump-patches gradually appearing. I am therefore compelled 

to return to the view long ago expressed by Isidore GeofFroy ^, and to regard them as 

varieties of the same species. 
With regard to distribution, most of the examples which I have seen with authen- 

ticated locaHties are from Mexico ; but Mr. Allen mentions one from Guatemala in the 
Washington Museum, and there is one from the same country at Berlin. Specimens 

in the British Museum are labelled as being from Colombia ; but there can be little 
doubt that this is an error. S. aureogaster is stated by Prof. Sumichrast (as quoted by 
Mr.Allen) to be "the common species of Sciurus of the tierra caliente of the east coast 

" 

of Mexico ; and both forms are found in the States of Oaxaca and Tehuantepec. 
In his latest revision of the American Squirrels, Mr. Allen has accepted the above 

identifications, and only diff'ers from me as to the proper name of the species. This 
he still holds to be Frederic Cuvier's barbarous title of aureogaster (or, as Mr. Allen 
prefers to write it, aureigaster), rejecting Erxleben's name of variegatus as being insuf- 

ficiently defined and " admittedly composite " ^. In this I must venture still to differ 
from my much-esteemed fellow-worker. S. variegatus was founded primarily on the 
Coztiocoteguallin * of Hernandez, Buff'on's CoqualUn being merely quoted as a synonym 

; 

and Erxleben's diagnosis and description appear to me to be quite characteristic of the 
leucops form of the present speciesf 
. That some subsequent compilers should have 
confused S. variegatus with 8. niger seems to me to be no good reason for abandoning 
the name in favour of such a thoroughly objectionable title as S. aureogaster. 

5. Sciurus hypopyrrhus. (Tab. Xll.) 

Sciurus hypopyrrhus, Wagler, Isis, 1831, p. 610 (descr. orig.) '; de Saussure, Eev. et Mag. Zool. 
1861, p. 5 ^; Allen, Mon. N.-Am. Rodent, p. 746'; Bull. U.S. Geol. Surv. iv. p. 881 *; 
Alston, P. Z. S. 1878, p. 662 \ 
Sciurus nigrescens, Bennett, P. Z. S. 1833, p. 41 (descr. orig.)'. 
Sciurus collimi, Richardson, Zool. Voy. ^ Blossom,^ p. 8, pi. i. (1839, descr. orig.)^ 
Sciurus variegatoides, Ogilby, P. Z. S. 1839, p. 117 (descr. orig.)^ 
Sciurus richardsoni, Gray, Ann. Nat. Hist. x. p. 265 (descr. orig., nee Bachman)^ 
Sciurus boothia, Gray, List Mamm. Brit. Mns. p. 139 (1843, sine descr.)^^ Allen, Mon. N.-Am. 
Rodent, p. 741 ^\ 

Sciurus griseocaudatus, Gray, Zool. Voy. 'Sulphur,' p. 34, pi. viii. (1844, descr. orig.)'^ 

*• Several other Squirrels are mentioned by Hernandez; but it is impossible to identify tbem satisfactorily. 
t " 8. corpore supra nigro, alho et fusco variegato. .... Magnitudo dupla 8. vulgaris. Auricula im- 
berbes. Corpus supra nigro, albo et fusco variegatum, ventre flavescente. Cauda supra coi-pus reflexa"^
