



146 GLIEES. 

4. Hesperomys aureolus. 

Mus (Calomys) aureolus, Audubon & Bachman, Journ. Ac. Philad. vi. p. 302 (1842, descr. orig.)'. 

Hesperomys {Vesperomys) aureolus, Coues, Proc. Ac. Philad. 1874, p. 180'; Mon. N.-Am. Rodent. 

p. 91'. 

Hesperomys nuttalU, Baird, Mamm. N. Am. p. 467 (nee Harlan?*)*. 

'fHesperomysfulvescens, de Saussure, Rev. et Mag. Zool. 1860, p. 102 (descr. orig.)'. 

Hab. NoETH Amekica, from South Carolina southwards 3.

—

Mexico {de Saussure^; 

Salle, Mus. Brit). 

I have very little hesitation in identifying M. de Saussure's Hesperomys fuhescens 

with the Golden Mouse of the Southern United States. In his original description it 

is remarked that " pour la couleur elle se rapproche beaucoup de VH. nuttalli, Harl., 

mais elle a la queue plus longue, ses oreilles ne sont pas ferrugineuses et la couleur du 

poil parait etre un pen plus foncee"^ In the British Museum there are two Mexican 

Mice, collected by Salle, which agree very well with M. de Saussure's description, but 

are larger, and have the tail, though still long, proportionally shorter, while their 

ears are concolorous with the back, exactly as in H. aureolus. Dr. Coues's table of 

measurements of a series of the latter species shows a considerable variability in pro- 

portions, though the average length of tail is decidedly shorter than in the Mexican 

examples under consideration^. Nevertheless, when we consider the intermediate 

specimens and remember the immense extent to which other American Mice have 

been shown to vary in this respect, we must hesitate to found specific distinction 

on such a character, and better characters must, I think, be pointed out before 

H. fuhescens can be recognized as more than a long-tailed race of H. aureolus. 

5. Hesperomys caHfornicus. 

Mus califamicus, Gambel, Proc. Ac. Philad. 1848, p. 78 (descr. orig.)\ 

Hesperomys [Vesperomys) caHfornicus, Coues, Proc. Ac. Philad. 1874, p. 180^ ; Mon. N.-Am. Rodent, 

p. 98\ 

Eal. NoETH Ameeica, California ^ ^.

—

Mexico, Tehuantepec {Boucard, Mus. Brit.). 

As Dr. Coues remarks, this large long-eared Mouse has much the appearance of a 

half-grown Neotoma. First discovered by Gambel at Monterey, its range seems to 

extend southwards to Tehuantepec ; for a specimen obtained by the British Museum 
from that locality, through M. Boucard, only differs from Californian examples in 

the same collection in being rather paler and more ashy in colour. All these speci- 
mens appear to be larger than those examined by Dr. Coues, giving an average length 

* Although Harlan's description of his Arvicola nuttalli (Am. Monthly Jonrn. 1832, p. 446) agrees with 

this species, it is also applicable to a nifo-us specimen of If. leucopus ; I have therefore followed Mr. Allen 

(Bull. Mus. Comp. Zool. ii. p. 180) and Dr. Coues in retaining Audubon and Bachman's name.
