COLPODES. 101
In his second monograph of this genus, published in 1878, Chaudoir enumerated 223 species as belonging to it; the number existing in collections, however, is far greater than this large total. They are distributed over the warmer regions of the earth, chiefly within the tropical zone, though they are very much less numerous in the wooded plains near the equator than in the mountains or in latitudes further removed north or south, Mexico, Central America, and the Andes of Colombia and Ecuador being especially rich in species. In Southern and Eastern Asia and the neighbouring islands the genus is also well represented; and many species occur in New Zealand, Madagascar, and the Mascarene Islands, although, singularly enough, none are yet known from Australia or Africa. One species only is at present recorded from temperate North America.
Colpodes is distinguished from Anchomenus and Platynus chiefly by the form of the penultimate joint of the tarsi, which is more or less bilobed, instead of triangular or slightly emarginated. This peculiarity, however, is very far from being uniform; strongly marked in the more typical species in all the legs, the lobes being rounded and the outer longer than the inner, it degenerates in others into a simple emargination of the joint, the outer angle retaining its relatively greater length; but the anterior tarsi are the least affected by the changes of form, being in all the species more or less distinctly and equally bilobed. The soft hairy clothing of the soles of the tarsi, which Chaudoir mentions as also a generic-character, is still less constant: in the more typical species the hairs are numerous and soft; but in many others the tarsi present the same scanty rows of bristles as in Platynus and Anchomenus.
A Colpodes is in most cases recognizable as an Anchomenid of long and slender form, with legs, antennæ, and palpi more elongated than in the allied genera. The colours, though various, are seldom quite like those prevalent in Anchomenus, even when metallic.
The species are nearly all arboreal in their mode of life; and this will reasonably account for their tarsal structure, if, as may be supposed, they are Anchomeni and Platyni modified to suit climbing habits.
§ 1. Episterna metathoracica brevia, postice vix angustata.
1. Colpodes prostomis.
Colpodes prostomis, Bates, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, p. 5981.
“Elongato-oblongus, niger, nitidus, elytris violaceo-tinctis, palpis gracilibus antennisque rufo-piceis; capite mox pone oculos angustato, collo cylindrico, supra depresso; mandibulis valde elongatis; thorace elongato-quadrato, supra lævissimo, antice prope angulos angustato, postice longius et minus, vix sinuatim angustato, angulis posticis subrectis apice obtusis, margine laterali subæqualiter explanato-reflexo; elytris oblongis, valde convexis, apice sinuatis, fortiter (prope apicem profundius) striatis, interstitiis paullo convexis, 3° tripunctato; metasterni episternis brevibus.
“Tarsi articulo 4° bilobo, lobis valde inæqualibus.
“Long. 6½–7 lin. ♂ ♀.”
