102 ADEPHAGA.
Hab. COSTA RICA, Volcan de Irazu, 6000–7000 feet (Rogers1).—PANAMA, Volcan de Chiriqui (Champion).
An aberrant species, much resembling Cyrtolaus lobipennis, but presenting the generic characters of Colpodes. The mandibles are similar in their length and straightness to Cyrtolaus, but the ligula is of the normal Anchomenid form, and the four hind tarsi are slender, with the usual lateral groove (situated nearer the dorsal surface than usual) on each side of the joints, the 4th joint having the usual long narrow lobes (the exterior the longer) of Colpodes. The metathoracic episterna, though short, have not the broad form, characteristic of the first section, but are considerably narrowed behind.
2. Colpodes stricticollis. (Tab. V. fig. 3.)
Colpodes stricticollis, Bates, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, p. 595.
“Elongatus, niger, nitidus; palpis, antennarum articulis 4°–11m tarsisque piceo-rufis; thorace fere orbiculari, basi fortiter constricto, marginibus lateralibus rotundato-explanatis, supra lævi, polito; elytris convexis, marginibus lateralibus explanatis lævibus, apice vix sinuatis, supra valde convexis, sulcato-striatis.
“Tarsi articulo 4° latiusculo, emarginato, subtus sublonge setoso, articulis 1°–3mquatuor posteriorum supra bisulcatis.
“ Long. 6 lin.”
Hab. NICARAGUA, Chontales (Belt, Janson).
This is another aberrant species, unlike any other member of the genus both in general form and in the combination of structural characters. The metathoracic episterna have nearly the same form as in C. prostomis; and the tarsi are similarly grooved, but the fourth joint is simply emarginate, with moderately produced angles.
3. Colpodes marginicollis.
Colpodes marginicollis, Chaudoir, Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr. 1859, p. 312; Chaudoir, id. ibid. 1878, p. 2951.
Hab. MEXICO1, Jacale (Sallé).
4. Colpodes pterostichoides. (Tab. V. fig. 4.)
Oblongus, depressus, cupreo-piceus, antennis, palpis pedibusque rufo-piceis; oculis parvis, collo crasso; thorace quadrato, ante medium modice angustato, angulis anticis productis, post medium fortiter sinuato sed parum angustato, angulis posticis acutis productis, supra lævi; elytris breviter oblongis, humeris subrectis, apice sat fortiter sinuatis, subtiliter sed acute striatis, interstitiis planis tertio 3-punctato; metathoracis episternis brevibus; tarsis posticis utrinque sulcatis, articulo 4° lato profunde emarginato; plantis omnibus dense pubescentibus, articulo unguiculari nudo.
Long. 5½ lin. ♂ ♀.
Hab. MEXICO, Las Vigas, Tehuacan, Oaxaca (Höge).
Unlike any other Colpodes known to me, and in general form similar to the Pterostichi allied to P. multipunctatus. The elytra are more metallic than the rest of the surface, dark purplish coppery, with a slight opalescent lustre.
