106 ADEPHAGA.
cis rugulose and towards the base and angles subopake), the truncated palpi, and the scarce perceptibly sinuated elytra. Chaudoir places C. semiopacus in his second section (“episterna postica latitudine parum longiora”); but the episterna are very little longer than in any of the mœstus group, and I suspect this is a character which varies to some extent in one and the same species.
17. Colpodes procephalus. (Tab. V. fig. 6.)
Colpodes procephalus, Bates, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, p. 597.
“Elongates, vix convexus, niger; elytris purpurascentibus [vel cyaneis]; capite elongato, post oculos gradatim angustato, collo supra haud transversim depresso, oculis haud prominulis; palpis et antennis piceis; thorace valde elongato, oblongo-ovato, postice paullo leviter angustato, angulis posticis obtusis vel rotundatis, supra subtiliter transversim striato; elytris ellipticis, apice fortiter sinuatis, striatis, interstitio 3° tripunctato; metasterni episternis brevibus quadratis.
“Tarsi articulo 4° latiusculo, profunde emarginato.”
Long. 5–7 lin.
Hab. GUATEMALA, near the city (Salvin), Capetillo, Volcan de Agua, Totonicapam (Champion).
Var. honduræ, thorace postice fortius sed gradatim angustato, elongato-cordato, elytrisque nigris leviter cupreo tinctis.
Hab. HONDURAS, river Sarstoon (Blancaneaux).
Closely allied to C. semiopacus; head similarly prolonged and very gradually narrowed behind the eyes, claw-joint of the tarsi ciliated, &c. The elytra, however, are more sharply and strongly striated, and of a shining purple-coppery tinge. The palpi are obtusely acuminated at the apex, and the hinder tarsi very faintly grooved on the sides.
The Honduras variety, in which the thorax is rather longer and more strongly narrowed behind, is connected with the type form by intermediate gradations from Capetillo.
The metathoracic episterna are much narrower and rather longer than in C. mœstus, but do not differ much in form from those of C. feronioides in the same section.
18. Colpodes semiopacus.
Colpodes semiopacus, Chaudoir, Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr. 1878, p. 3221.
Hab. MEXICO, Oaxaca (Sallé1), Parada (coll. Sallé).
19. Colpodes biovatus.
Colpodes biovatus, Chaudoir, Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr. 1878, p. 322.
Hab. MEXICO, Yolotepec (Sallé), Oaxaca (Höge).
A specimen in the Sallé collection is labelled “type,” and bears the name in M. de Chaudoir’s handwriting. The species is very closely allied to the three preceding, and is (erroneously, as I think) referred by its author to his second section,
