COLPODES. 109
In colours and in the elongated form similar to C. castanipes, but the head of totally different shape, and the elytra obsoletely striated.
The varieties occur in the same locality as the type form.
28. Colpodes sphodroides.
Colpodes sphodroïdes, Chaudoir, Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr. 1859, p. 309; Chaudoir, id. ibid. 1878, p. 3221.
Hab. MEXICO, Oaxaca1 (Höge), Parada (Sallé), Jalapa (Höge).
29. Colpodes forreri. (Tab. V. fig. 9.)
C. sphodroïdi et biovato affinis, sed longior et gracilior, elytris cyaneo-nigris depressis subopacis; capite ovato, oculis modice prominentibus, genis post oculos sat tumidis, collo constricto; palpis apice recte truncatis; thorace angusto, ovato, depresso, postice gradatim angustato angulis posticis omnino rotundatis; elytris elongato-ovatis post medium latioribus, versus basin sensim angustatis, margine basali arcuato, angulo humerali paullo producto, apice sinuatis, dorso tenuiter striatis, interstitiis planis 3° conspicue tripunctato; tarsis subtus subdense spinosis, posticis utrinque sulcatis, articulo 4° emarginato, lobis acutis æqualibus, 5° haud ciliato; episternis posticis quam in C. sphodroïde paullo longioribus.
Long. 5½ lin.
Hab. MEXICO, Ciudad in Durango (Forrer).
30. Colpodes ebeninus.
Colpodes ebeninus, Chaudoir, Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr. 1878, p. 310.
Hab. MEXICO, Santecomapan (Sallé).
31. Colpodes bispinis.
Elongato-ovatus, dorso postice gradatim declivo et planato; niger nitidus, elytris cupreo-æneis; capite sat elongato, genis pone oculos sat dilatatis gradatim angustatis, collo subconstricto, foveis frontalibus magnis, profundis; thorace quadrato, polito, antice curvatim angustato (haud dilatato), angulis anticis rotundatis collo approximatis, postice vix angustato, angulis rectis, margine laterali explanato-reflexo; elytris prope apicem valde sinuato-angustatis, apice ipso (haud procul a sutura) valde spinoso, basi latis, humeris rotundatis, striatis, interstitiis planissimis, 3° tripunctato; tarsis gracilibus, subtus sat pilosis, posterioribus extus sulcatis, articulo 4° emarginato, lobo exteriore elongato, pedum anteriorum longe bilobato; episternis posticis brevibus et latis sed postice sat angustatis.
Long. 6½ lin.
Hab. COSTA RICA (Dr. Horn, coll. Bates).
A remarkable species, apparently allied to C. spinipennis, but well distinguished by the elytra being convex (and that slightly) only at the anterior fourth of their length, gradually sloping thence and flattened to the apex, and by their striæ being extremely fine, though sharply impressed, and punctulated or subinterrupted towards the sides and apex. The head and thorax are smooth, highly polished, and brassy black, with the sides of the latter (slightly transparent and rufous) explanated and strongly reflexed from the anterior to the posterior angles. The elytra are also highly polished, brownish brassy with a coppery tinge. The legs are long and slender. The metathoracic epimera are almost as short as in C. mœstus, but are distinctly narrowed behind.
