ONYPTERYGIA.—DIPLOHARPUS. 133
16. Onypterygia pusilla.
Onypterygia pusilla, Chaudoir, Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr. 1878, p. 276.
Hab. MEXICO, Cordova, Juquila (Sallé), Jalapa (Höge); GUATEMALA, Senahu (Champion).
Subfam. PERIGONINÆ.
Since this subfamily was proposed, under the name Trechichinæ, in the “Geodephagous Coleoptera of Japan” (Trans. Ent. Soc. 1873), M. Putzeys discovered that the genus Perigona, described by Castelnau as far back as 1835, belongs to the group, and is synonymous with, or at least very closely allied to, Trechicus, proposed long afterwards. Further examination has convinced me that Diploharpus, Chaud., also belongs to the subfamily, as well as the genus Mizotrechus, described by me in 1872 (Ent. Monthly Mag. viii. p. 199). The last-mentioned genus, however, must be restricted to the typical species M. novemstriatus, the remainder being referable to Perigona.
Dr. Horn, in his recent work on the Carabidæ, places the subfamily as a subordinate group under the Platyni (=Anchomeninæ); but I think it is clear we have here to deal with a modification of the Carabideous type quite distinct from the Platyni. The total absence of subapical sinuation in the margins of the elytra, the peculiar striation, in which the eighth stria is more deeply impressed than the rest and is continuous to the apex, the paraglossæ adherent (although only by a thin membrane) to the upper angles of the ligula, the partial pubescence of the third (and sometimes the second) joint of the antennæ, and the gradually pointed terminal joint of the palpi, form a combination of characters quite unlike those of the Anchomeninæ. Some features of their structure point towards the group Bipalmati; and the peculiar striation seems to indicate an affinity with the Stenolophinæ, certain Australian species allied to Acupalpus showing an approach towards it; but from the former of these groups the subfamily is distinguished by the anterior tarsi of the male having three joints clothed beneath with ragged squamæ, and from the second by the presence of two (instead of one) superorbital setæ.
DIPLOHARPUS.
Diploharpus, Chaudoir, Bull. Mosc. ii. p. 394 (1850).
A genus exclusively tropical American. The majority of the species are distinguished from Perigona by the elongated straight and porrected mandibles, maxillæ, and palpi; but these are connected with normal forms of Perigonæ by species showing nearly all gradations of structure in this respect. Seven species have been described.
1. Diploharpus exstriatus.
Diploharpus exstriatus, Bates, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, p. 6011.
“Oblongo-ovatus, supra lævissimus æneo-relucens, subiridescens; partibus oris, antennis pedibusque fulvis;
