134 ADEPHAGA.
mandibulis longissimis, rectis; thorace ovato, marginibus postice explanato-elevatis, angulis posticis rotundatis; elytris absque striis, marginali excepta.
“Long. 3¾ lin.”
Hab. NICARAGUA, Chontales (Belt)1.
Var. Thorace antice paullulum latiore elytrisque obsolete punctulato-striatis.
Hab. PANAMA, Bugaba (Champion).
Agrees with the type species D. lævissimus, from South Brazil, in being destitute of all trace of striæ, except the eighth and ninth, which lie in a broad marginal groove with a convex interstice interrupted by the usual large marginal punctures.
The variety has the same form of thorax, with the exception that it is a little broader anteriorly. Having only a single specimen each of variety and type form, it is impossible to decide whether these differences are specific or not.
2. Diploharpus mexicanus.
Drimostoma mexicanum, Chevrolat, Mag. Zool. 1841, pl. 641.
Hab. MEXICO1 Cordova (Sallé), Jalapa, Oaxaca (Höge).
Besides the eighth and ninth striæ this species has a rudiment near the apex of the seventh, strongly incised, abruptly terminated anteriorly, and separated from the eighth by a narrow convex interstice.
3.Diploharpus perpolitus. (Tab. VI. fig. 1.)
D. striolato simillimus, sed differt thoracis angulis posticis haud produtis. Inter minores, subæneo-niger politissimus, palpis, antennis pedibusque melleo-fulvis; mandibulis modice elongatis, apice magis falcatis; thorace transversim subcordato-quadrato, postice modice angustato, lateribus ante angulos posticos sub-rectos perparum sinuatis, margine postico late explanato sed minime reflexo; elytris subopalescentibus, striis 3 vel 4 interioribus plus minusve adumbratis, striola septima apicali profunda.
Long. 2¼ lin.
Hab. GUATEMALA, El Tumbador, Las Mercedes (Champion).
MIZOTRECHUS.
Mizotrechus, Bates, Ent. Monthly Mag. viii. p. 199 (1872), partim.
Restricted to the typical species (to which the above-cited generic diagnosis only applies), this genus is distinguished from Diploharpus and Perigona by its elongated parallelogrammical form of body, short, thickened tarsi, and fully-developed elytral striæ. The elytra at the apex are obtusely rounded, or obliquely but obtusely truncated, the eighth and ninth striæ lying, as in the rest of the subfamily, in a marginal groove which continues to the sutural angle.
1. Mizotrechus novemstriatus. (Tab. VI. fig. 2.)
Mizotrechus novemstriatus, Bates, Ent. Monthl. Mag. viii. p. 1991.
Hab. NICARAGUA, Chontales (Janson).—SOUTH AMERICA, Amazons1.
