136 ADEPHAGA.
Subdivision E. Bipalmati.
Under this head I here combine the two groups Bipalmati and Subulipalpi of the “Geodephagous Coleoptera of Japan,” thus reverting to the classification of Erichson in the ‘Käfer der Mark Brandenburg.’ The numerous connecting links between Trechus on the one hand and Tachys and Bembidium on the other show, in fact, the close relationship between them. The genus Ochthozetus, of the subfamily Pogoninæ, connects, in another direction, the Bembidiinæ, through the genus Bracteon (Bedel), with Pogonus and Patrobus. The subdivision is exceedingly numerous in species; in all, the males have two joints only of the anterior tarsi furnished with ragged squamæ beneath.
Subfam. TRECHINÆ.
TRECHUS.
Trechus, Clairville, Entom. Helvetica, ii. p. 22 (1806).
A well-marked genus of small Carabidæ of wide distribution. With the exception of the lowlands in the equatorial zone, it seems to be cosmopolitan in its range, occurring in oceanic islands as well as on continents, and spreading into high latitudes both north and south. Nearly 200 species have been described, mostly from the cooler temperate zone and in mountain-ranges.
1. Trechus mexicanus.
Trechus mexicanus, Putzeys, Stett. ent. Zeit. 1870, p. 33.
Hab. MEXICO, Orizaba, Puebla (Sallé), Oaxaca (Höge); GUATEMALA, Totonicapam (Champion).
2. Trechus coarctatus. (Tab. VI. fig. 3.)
T. mexicano affinis, sed major, thorace postice valde constricto elytrisque fere exstriatis. Elongatus, niger, politus, palpis, antennis et pedibus castaneo-rufis; capite latiusculo, oculis sat prominentibus, vertico postice depresso; thorace subelongato-cordato, prope basin valde constricto, angulis posticis rectis, subproductis, foveis utrinque profundis duabus, altera majore prope angulum, altera minore sublineari prope lineam dorsalem; elytris oblongo-ovatis, humeris sat late rotundatis, dorso prope suturam depresso, stria suturali (prope apicem) et marginali solum perspicuis, striola recurrente distincta, punctis setiferis magnis utrinque tribus, prima ut in T. mexicano versus humerum.
Long. 3 lin. (6½ millim.).
Hab. MEXICO, Oaxaca (Höge).
Belongs to the same group as T. mexicanus, but differs conspicuously by the greatly narrowed base of the thorax and the obliteration of the elytral striæ, there remaining scarcely any traces except of the sutural one (towards the apex) and the eighth, the ninth being indistinct, though indicated towards the apex, near which the interstice is interrupted, forming one or more oblong tubercles, more distinct than in T. mexicanus.
