TACHYS. 143
20. Tachys jansoni.
T. amplicolli quam maxime affinis, differt tantum thorace paullo minus dilatato, elytrisque utrinque tristriatis, striis punctulatis.
Long. ⅔ lin.
Hab. NICARAGUA, Chontales (Janson).
Resembles T. squiresi from South Brazil, in which, however, the three striæ on each elytron are much more strongly punctured, and are followed by traces of a fourth similar stria.
21. Tachys rufulus.
Tachys rufula, Motschulsky, Etud. Entom. 1855, p. 13.
Tachyura rufula, Motschulsky, ibid. 1862, p. 281.
Hab. PANAMA, Obispo1.
22. Tachys curvans.
Parvus, subdepressus, angustus, flavo-testaceus; antennis parum elongatis; capite ut in T. corusco et affinibus; thorace transverso, postice (modice sinuatim) angustato, angulis posticis obtusis sed apice acuto, sulculo basali profundo angulum apud lineam dorsalem formante; elytris parum ovatis, striis interioribus quatuor distincte impressis, 2a et 3a versus apicem extus curvatis ibique interstitiis latis, striis exterioribus punctulatis haud impressis.
Long. ⅔ lin.
Hab. GUATEMALA, San Gerónimo, Panzos, Rio Naranjo (Champion).
The apical recurved striole is not clearly distinguishable from the striæ except under a high power of the microscope, the second and third striæ being much more strongly impressed than in the allied species, curved outward towards the apex, and approaching within a short distance of the striole. The species is of the flattened form of the members of § 1; but it belongs to this section from the discoidal position of both the elytral punctures.
A species very closely resembling this, but having a rather narrower and more cordate thorax, has been sent to me from California as Tachys, n. sp., by Mr. H. K. Morrison.
The position of the following species is uncertain.
23. Tachys minusculus.
Tachys minusculus, Motschulsky, Etud. Ent. 1862, p. 361.
Hab. PANAMA, Obispo1.
The author says, “Elytres tout-à-fait sans stries.” I have seen no species answering to this description.
24. Tachys cribellatus.
Sat late oblongus, modice convexus, ferrugineo-rufus, nitidus, pedibus pallidioribus; elytris vitta lata communi nigra, paulo ante apicem terminante; antennis breviusculis, infuscatis, basi pallidis; thorace brevi et lato,
