ANILLUS.—PERICOMPSUS. 145
ANILLUS.
Anillus, Jacquelin Duval, Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr. 1851, Bull. p. 72.
A genus of minute blind beetles, allied to Tachys, hitherto found only in the Mediterranean region and in North America. Ten species have been described. The following differs from the typical forms, and also from the allied genera Scotodipnus and Illaphanus in its convex surface, and in the elytra being rounded, not subtruncated at the apex. By the absence of striæ or distinct rows of punctures, and by the scarcely perceptible terminal joint of the palpi, it agrees better with Scotodipnus than with Anillus; but in the former of these two genera the elytra are much abbreviated, which is not at all the case with our species.
1. Anillus integripennis. (Tab. VI. fig. 5.)
Minutus, oblongus, subconvexus, breviter setosus, flavo-testaceus, subnitidus; foveis frontalibus elongatis, sat profundis, interspatio subangusto convexo; antennis robustis, moniliformibus, versus apicem subincrassatis; thorace quadrato, postice parum angustato, angulis posticis rectis, basi depressa transversim sulcata; elytris oblongis, apice subabrupte declivibus, subtilissime punctulatis, striis nullis, in loco striolæ recurvæ punctis magnis tribus.
Long. ⅔ lin.
Hab. GUATEMALA, Totonicapam (Champion).
PERICOMPSUS.
Pericompsus, Leconte, Ann. Lyc. N. York, v. p. 191 (1852); Schaum, Berl. ent. Zeitschr. 1860, p. 201.
Eighteen species of this genus have been described, all American, and ranging through temperate as well as tropical latitudes, north and south. A closely allied undescribed genus occurs in Australia, of which Tachys australis, Schaum, is the type, differing from Pericompsus only in the eighth and ninth elytral striæ being separated and not sunk together in a marginal groove.
1. Pericompsus ephippiatus.
Bembidium ephippiatum, Say, Trans. Amer. Phil. Soc. iv. 1834, p. 4391.
Pericompsus ephippiatus, Leconte, Ann. Lyc. N. York, 1852, p. 191.
Hab. NORTH AMERICA1.—GUATEMALA, San Gerónimo (Champion).
2. Pericompsus jucundus.
Pericompsus jucundus, Schaum, Berl. ent. Zeitschr. 1860, p. 2021.
Hab. MEXICO, Tuxtla (Sallé), Vera Cruz (Sallé, Höge); GUATEMALA, Izabal (Sallé), Champerico (Champion).—SOUTH AMERICA, Venezuela1.
A Guatemalan specimen in the Sallé collection is referred to this species. All the examples I have examined agree with Schaum’s description as far as it goes.
BIOL. CENTR.-AMER., Coleopt., Vol. I. Pt. 1, October 1882. uu
