XYSTOSOMUS.—BEMBIDIUM. 147
3. Xystosomus belti. (Tab. VI. fig. 8.)
Xystosomus belti, Bates, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, p. 6011.
Xystosomus olivaceus, Bates, loc. cit. p. 6012.
“Elongato-ovatus, modice convexus, politus, viridi-æneus, elytris aureo tinctis; antennis fulvis, pedibus rufo-piceis, corpore subtus piceo; foveis frontalibus longis, ab sulculo oculari utrinque carina separatis; oculis maximis; thorace transverso, antice prope angulos fortiter rotundato-angustato, postice haud angustato, angulis posticis rectis; elytris striis punctulatis novem, la–3m vix impressis (la versus apicem excepta), 4a–7m apice evanescentibus.”
Long. 1¾–2¼ lin.
Hab. MEXICO, Cordova (Sallé); GUATEMALA, San Gerónimo (Champion); NICARAGUA, Chontales (Belt1 2, Janson); PANAMA, Volcan de Chiriqui, 2000 to 4000 feet, Bugaba (Champion).
The sculpture of the elytra varies a little in depth. Mexican and Guatemalan specimens have the striæ most faintly impressed; those from Chiriqui have mostly deep striæ with convex interstices, the interior striæ always the feeblest. The dark colour in the legs is most frequently (especially in Chiriqui examples) confined to the middle of the tibiæ, and then often on the fore legs only.
X. olivaceus (Bates) is evidently only a colour-aberration. I have seen but the one example described.
BEMBIDIUM.
Bembidium, Latreille, Hist. Nat. Ins. viii. p. 221.
Nearly 500 species have been described of this well-known genus. It is especially characteristic of temperate and boreal climates, being but sparingly represented in the tropics, even at high elevations; and in the river-plains of equatorial countries, as, for example, the Amazons, it is entirely absent, the allied genera Tachys, Pericompsus, and Xystosomus, in numerous species, there taking its place. It should be remarked, however, that the true functional representatives of the Bembidia in moist localities of the equatorial regions of America are the Lachnophorinæ.
1. Bembidium sphæroderum. (Tab. VI. fig. 12.)
Philochtho æneo subsimilis. Oblongum, subdepressum, olivaceo- vel cyaneo-nigrum, politum, antennarum articulis 3–4 basalibus pedibusque rufo-testaceis; capite lato, sulculo frontali usque ad oculi marginem posteriorem ducto; thorace valde rotundato, transverso, prope basin citius usque ad pedunculum rotundato-angustato (margine obtusissime angulato nec sinuato), anguste explanato-reflexo, basi lævi, fovea utrinque parva rotundata; elytris thorace vix latioribus, utrinque striis punctatis sex, omnibus (suturali excepta) ante apicem terminatis, area apicali politissima, stria tertia bipunctata, margine basali usque ad striæ 5æ basin curvato sed a striis distante.
Var. Pedibus obscurioribus partim piceo-rufis.
Long.1½ lin.
Hab. MEXICO, Jalapa (Höge).
The dark-legged variety, of which only one example was taken by Herr Höge, is from Oaxaca.
uu 2
