148 ADEPHAGA.
2. Bembidium championi.
B. sphærodero proxime affine, differt tantum colore æneo politissimo elytrisque septemstriatis, striis vix impressis, punctatis, 7a brevissima, 6a ante medium, 5a paulo post medium terminatis; femoribus supra tarsisque infuscatis.
Long. 1½ lin.
Hab. GUATEMALA, Quiche Mountains, 7000 to 9000 feet (Champion).
3. Bembidium rogersi.
Bembidium rogersi, Bates, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, p. 6021.
“Gracile, convexiusculum, nigro-æneum, pedibus piceis, antennarum articulo basali subtus rufo; thorace anguste cordato, antice rotundato, postice sinuatim angustato, angulis posticis rectis, basi transversim depresso, vage punctata, foveis profundis carinaque elevata ad marginem fere parallela; elytris punctulato-striatis, interstitiis convexis paulo undulatis, tertio foveis duabus magnis vagis impresso, stria 7a obsoleta.
“Long. 2¼ lin.”
Hab. COSTA RICA, Volcan de Irazu, 6000 to 7000 feet (Rogers)1.
4. Bembidium cognatum.
Bembidium (Leja) cognatum, Dejean, Sp. Gén. Col. v. p. 1691.
Hab. MEXICO (Höpfner1), Puebla (Sallé), Guanajuato (Dugès, coll. Sallé), near the capital (Flohr), Oaxaca, Jalapa (Höge); GUATEMALA, near the city, Quezaltenango (Champion).
Extremely near B. flavopictum, Motschulsky (pictum, Lec.), from California and Texas, and presenting the same range of variation in the pale markings of the elytra as that attributed by Leconte to the North-American species. The two species, however, differ constantly in the colour of the base of the antennæ, always black in B. cognatum and pale rufous in B. flavopictum. The thorax also differs in being narrower at the base in B. cognatum, with a raised but obtuse carina at each angle between the deep oval fovea and the margin.
5. Bembidium mexicanum. (Tab. VI. fig. 13.)
Bembidium (Peryphus) mexicanum, Dej. Sp. Gén. Col. v. p. 1261.
Hab. MEXICO, Cordova (Sallé), Guanajuato (Dugès, coll. Sallé), near the capital (Flohr), Alvarez Mountains (Dr. Palmer), Jalapa, Oaxaca (Höge); GUATEMALA, near the city, Totonicapam (Champion).
Var. sallæi (Chaud. in coll.). Differt tantum elytris utrinque rufo-bimaculatis, macula prima humerali elongata (interdum vaga vel obsoleta), secunda subapicali plus minusve fasciiformi obliqua.
Hab. MEXICO, Puebla, Toluca, Etla (Sallé), Guanajuato (Dugès, coll. Sallé), near the capital (Flohr), Oaxaca (Höge); BRITISH HONDURAS, river Sarstoon (Blancaneaux); GUATEMALA, near the city, Totonicapam, Panajachel (Champion).
The typical B. mexicanum is, as described by Dejean, “obscure viridi-æneum” (M. Sallé’s Cordova specimens have a slight bluish-green tint), with spotless elytra.
