BEMBIDIUM. 149
Between this form and the four-spotted B. sallæi there exists every gradation in the large series I have examined from the localities above cited. The number of red basal joints of the antennæ also varies, the minimum being one, viz. the scape; the depth of the elytral striæ and strength of their punctuation also vary, being in some examples much diminished; the seventh stria, however, is always absent. In all its varieties the form of the thorax remains constant. It is cordate-quadrate, with simple basal foveæ and only slight traces of a carina or minute plica lying obliquely and joining the lateral margin a little before the angle, which latter is projecting rectangular.
A specimen from Cordova is figured.
6. Bembidium submaculatum.
Bembidium (Peryphus) submaculatum, Bates, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, p. 6031.
“Elongato-ovatum, modice convexum, fusco-æneum, elytris utrinque versus apicem macula obliqua flavo-testacea; antennis piceis, articulo 1° et 2°–4m basi pedibusque flavo-testaceis; palpis maxillaribus articulo penultimo obscuro; thorace transversim quadrato, antice modice rotundato, postice leviter sinuatim angustato, angulis posticis subrectis, fovea basali profunda vage rugosa, carinaque obliqua juxta angulum; elytris subtiliter striato-punctulatis, striis interdum magis impressis, 7a abbreviata, exterioribus omnibus versum apicem obliteratis, interstitio 3° bipunctato.
“Long. 2 1/6 lin.”
Hab. MEXICO, near the capital (Flohr)1, Capulalpam, Jacale (Sallé), Oaxaca, Jalapa (Höge).
Extremely near B. mexicanum, but differs in the seventh stria being distinct, though much abbreviated, and in some examples reduced to a row of faint punctures near the base, and in the thoracic carina being longer and more conspicuous. It is much smaller than the usual size of B. mexicanum.
7. Bembidium lucidum.
B. submaculato proxime affine, differt thorace magis rotundato, antennis rufis apice tantum subinfuscatis, elytrisque utrinque macula magna humerali, altera obliqua versus apicem flavo-testaceis; pedibus testaceis; elytris stria punctata 7a magis distincta et ultra medium continuata; thorace basi plus minusve punctato
Long. 2⅓ lin.
Hab. NORTH AMERICA to Hudson’s Bay.—MEXICO, San Antonio de Arriba (Sallé), Oaxaca (Höge).
Named B. immaturatum by Chaudoir in the Sallé collection. I can detect no differences between Mexican specimens and others from various parts of North America, and have received the species from Morrison (taken in Montana) under the name of B. lucidum.
8. Bembidium vernale.
B. mexicani exemplaribus cyaneo-olivaceis simile, sed multo minor, thoraceque postice magis sinuatim angustato angulisque valde exstantibus. Olivaceum, subcyaneum, antennis basi pedibusque rufo-testaceis; thorace cordato, postice sinuatim angustato, angulis posticis prominentibus acutis, foveis basalibus parvis
