



COLPODES. 101 

In his second monograph of this genus, published in 1878, Chaudoir enumerated 223 

species as belonging to it ; the number existing in collections, however, is far greater 

than this large total. They are distributed over the warmer regions of the earth, 

chiefly within the tropical zone, though they are very much less numerous in the 
wooded plains near the equator than in the mountains or in latitudes further removed 

north or south, Mexico, Central America, and the Andes of Colombia and Ecuador 

being especially rich in species. In Southern and Eastern Asia and the neighbourin 

islands the genus is also well represented ; and many species occur in New Zealand, 

Madagascar, and the Mascarene Islands, although, singularly enough, none are yet 

o 

known from Australia or Africa. One species only is at present recorded from 

i 
temperate North America. 

Colpodes is distinguished from Anchomenus and Platynus chiefly by the form of the 

penultimate joint of the tarsi, which is more or less bilobed, instead of triangular or 

slightly emarginated. This peculiarity, however, is very far from being uniform 

; 

marked in the more 5 
and the outer longer than the inner, it degenerates in others into a simple emargination 

of the joint, the outer angle retaining its relatively greater length ; but the anterior 

tarsi are the least aifected by the changes of form, being in all the species more or less 

distinctly and equally bilobed. The soft hairy clothing of the soles of the tarsi, which 
Chaudoir mentions as also a generic character, is still less constant : in the more typical 

species the hairs are numerous and soft ; but in many others the tarsi present the same 

scanty rows of bristles as in Platynus and Anchomenus. 
A Colpodes is in most cases recognizable as anAnchomenid of long and slender form, 

with legs, antennae, and palpi more elongated than in the allied genera. The colours, 

though various, are seldom quite like those prevalent in Anchomenusj, even when 

metallic. 
The species are nearly all arboreal in their mode of life ; and this will reasonably 

account for their tarsal structure, if, as may be supposed, they are Anchomeni and 

Platyni modified to suit climbing habits. 

§ 1. Episterna metathoracica brevia, jpostice vix angustata 

l. Colpodes prostomis. 

Colpodesprostomis, Bates, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, p. 598 \ 

n 

i 
oblongus, niger, nitidus, elytris violaceo-tinctis, palpis gracilibus antennisque rufo-piceis ; capite 
mandibulis 

quadrato, supra lsevissimo, antice pro'pe angulos angustato, postice longius et minus, vix sinuatim angus- 

tato, angulis posticis subrectis apice obtusis, margine laterali subsequaliter explanato-reflexo ; elytris 

oblongis, valde convexis, apice sinuatis, fortiter (prope apicem profundius) striatis, interstitiis paullo 

convexis, 3° tripunctato ; metasterni episternis brevibus. 
" Tarsi articulo 4° bilobo, lobis valde insequalibus, 
" Long. 6^-7 lin. 6 $ " 

• 

. 

.
