



I 

. 

. 
, 

x 

' 

- • 

102 ADEPHAGA. 

Eab. Costa Rica, Volcan de Irazu, 6000-7000 feet (Bogers 1 Panama, Volcan de 

Chiriqui (Champion). 
An aberrant species, much resembling Cyrtolaus lobipennis, but presenting ...... 
generic characters of Colpodes. The mandibles are similar in their length 

straightness to Cyrtolaus, but the ligula is of the normal Anchomenid form, and the 

i 
four hind tarsi are slender, with the usual lateral groove (situated nearer the do 

surface than usual) on each side of the joints, the 4th joint having the usual long 

narrow lobes (the exterior the longer) of Colpodes. The metathoracic episterna, thoug 

short, have not the broad form characteristic of the first section, but are considerably 

narrowed behind. 

: - 

2. Colpodes stricticollis. (Tab. V, fig. 3.) 

Colpodes stricticollis, Bates, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, p. 595. 

i 

. 

" Elongatus, niger, nitidus ; palpis, antennarum articulis 4°-llm tarsisque piceo-rufis ; thorace fere orbiculari, 

basi fortiter constricto, marginibus lateralibus rotundato-explanatis, supra lsevi, polito ; elytris eonvexis, 

marginibus lateralibus explanatis laevibus, apice vix sinuatis, supra valde convexis, sulcato-striatis. 
" Tarsi articulo 4° latiusculo, emarginato, subtus sublonge setoso, articulis l°-3m quatuor posteriorum supra 

bisulcatis. 

,:'. 

. 

«Long. 6 lin." 

Hah. Nicakagua, Chontales (Belt, Janson). 

This is another aberrant species, unlike any other member of the genus both in 

general form and in the combination of structural characters. The metathoracic 

episterna have nearly the same form as in C. prostomis ; and the tarsi are similarly 

grooved, but the fourth joint is simply emarginate, with moderately produced angles. 

• 

3. Colpodes marginicollis. 

Colpodes marginicollis, Chaudoiir, Ann. Soc. Ent. Fr. 1859, p. 312 ; id. ibid. 1878, p. 295 
1 

. 

Eab. Mexico \ Jacale (SalU). 

• 

• 

4. Colpodes pterostichoides. (Tab. V. fig. 4.) 

Oblongus, depressus, cupreo-piceus, antennis, palpis pedibusque rufo-piceis ; oculis parvis, collo crasso ; thorace 

quadrato, ante medium modice angustato, angulis antieis productis, post medium fortiter sinuato sed 
parum angustato, angulis posticis acutis productis, supra lsevi ; elytris breviter oblongis, humeris subrectis, 

apice sat fortiter sinuatis, subtiliter sed acute striatis, interstitiis planis tertio 3-punctato ; metathoracis 

episternis brevibus ; tarsis posticis utrinque sulcatis, articulo 4° lato profunde emarginato ; plantis omnibus 
dense pubescentibus, articulo unguiculari nudo. 
Long. 5i lin. $ 

. . 

. 

. . 
Hab. Mexico, Las Vigas, Tehuacan, Oaxaca (Edge). 

Unlike any other Colpodes known to me, and in general form similar to the 

Pterostichi allied to P. midtipunctatus. The elytra are more metallic than the rest of 

the surface, dark purplish coppery, with a slight opalescent lustre. 

- 

•
