



ONYPTEETGIA.—DIPLOHAEPUS 

. 

133 

•> 

16. Onypterygia pusilla. 

• 

Onypterygia pusilla, Chaudoir, Ann. Soc. Ent. Ft. 1878, p. 276. 

Hab. Mexico, Cordova, Juquila {Salle), Jalapa (Hoge); Guatemala, Senahu 
{Champion). 

. 
Subfam. PERIGONIN^l. 

Since this subfamilywas proposed, under the nameTrechichinse, in the "Geodephag 

Coleoptera of Japan " (Trans. Ent. Soc. 1873), M. Putzeys discovered that the ge: 

Perigona, described by Castelnau as far back as 1835, belongs to the group, and i\ 
synonymous with, or at least very closely allied to, Trechieus, proposed long afterwards 
Further examination has convinced me that Diploharjms, Chaud., also belongs to the 

subfamily the genus Mizotrechus, described by me in 1872 (Ent. Monthly 
Mag. viii. p. 199). The last-mentioned genus, however, must be restricted to the typical 

species M. novemstriatus, the remainder being referable to Perigona. 

Dr. Horn, in his recent work on the Carabidse, places the subfamily as a subordinate 
group under the Platyni (=Anchomeninse) ; but I think it is clear we have here to 

deal with a modification of the Carabideous type quite distinct from the Platyn 

total absence of subapical sinuation in the margins of the elytra, the peculiar si 
The 

inwhich the eighth stria is more deeplyimpressed than the rest and is continuous to the 

apex, the paraglossse adherent (although onlyby a thin membrane) to the upper angles 

of the ligula, the partial pub of the third (and sometimes the second) joint of 

' the antennae, and the gradually pointed terminal joint of the palpi, form a combination 

of characters quite unlike those of the Anchomeninee. Some features of their structure 

point group Bipalmati ; and the peculiar striation seems to indicate an 

affinity with the Stenolophinae, certain Australian Acupalpus showing 
pproach towards it ; but from the former of these groups the subfamily 

guished the of the male having three joints clothed beneath with 
ragged squamse, and from the second by the presence of two (instead of one) superorbital 

setee. 
DIPLOHAKPUS 

t 

Biploharpus, Chaudoir, Bull. Mosc. ii. p. 394 (1850). 
A genus exclusively tropical American. The majority of the species are distinguished 

from Perigona by the elongated straight and porrected mandibles, maxillae, and palpi 

; 

. 

but these are connected with normal forms of Perigonw by species showing nearly all 

gradations of structure in this respect. Seven species have been described. 

1. Diploharpus exstriatus. 

Biploharpus exstriatus, Bates, Proc. Zool. Soc. 1878, p. 601 

subiridescens ; partibus oris, antennis pedibusq 

- 

'
