102 TROGLODYTIDÆ.
inseparable as species, owing to the gradual passage of even the most diverse of the forms from one into another by insensible gradations.
In the ‘Nomenclator Avium Neotropicalium’ a somewhat similar conclusion was arrived at3. Two southern species were there admitted, T. furvus and T. tessellatus, under the latter name being included all the birds from the Andes and Panama, the former embracing the rest of the South-American Wrens of this form. We now find that the birds of Guiana, the origin of the types of T. furvus, are not separable from the Wren of Panama, and that T. furvus and T. tessellatus blend insensibly together. On the other hand, slight differences in the Central-American T. intermedius seem to justify its separation.
The Panama bird which Prof. Baird distinguished by the name of T. inquietus11, besides agreeing with the Guiana Wren, does not differ materially from the birds of Antioquia7, Bogota8, and Peru4. At Santa Marta it passes into the Trinidad and Venezuela form, in which the marks of the back are less distinct, and is thus connected by insensible degrees with the Wren of the Amazons, Brazil, and Chili. Its northward extension seems tolerably defined, not passing the limits of the State of Panama. In Costa Rica T. intermedius takes its place, though T. inquietus appears in Mr. Lawrence’s list13 of the birds of that country on our authority.
When crossing the Isthmus of Panama in 1863 we noticed that the notes of the Wren found there differed from those of the Central-American bird, with which we were then well acquainted. It frequented similar places, being a constant attendant about houses and walls of old buildings. Salmon took its eggs at Medellin, in Colombia. These exactly resembled those of T. aedon, being thickly freckled with red.
5. Troglodytes solstitialis.
Troglodytes solstitialis, Scl. P. Z. S. 1858, p. 5501; Scl. & Salv. Ex. Orn. p. 45, t. 23. f. l2; Scl. & Salv. P. Z. S. 1879, pp. 4933, 5934; Tacz. P. Z. S. 1874, p. 5055.
Supra saturate brunneus, alis et cauda nigro distincte transfasciolatis, striga postoculari distincta fulva; capitis lateribus et corpore subtus dilute fulvis, abdomine medio albicantiore, crisso nigro transfasciato; rostro fusco, pedibus corylinis. Long. tota 3·8, alæ 1·8, caudæ 1·2, rostri a rictu 0·7, tarsi 0·7. (Descr. exempl. ex Costa Rica. Mus. nostr.)
Hab. COSTA RICA (Rogers).—COLOMBIA2 3; ECUADOR1; PERU5; BOLIVIA4.
The smaller size, the distinct superciliary stripe, the darker and more uniform tint of the plumage above, and the whiter belly distinguish this species from all the forms of T. furvus, it being, in fact, readily distinguishable from that bird. It has an extensive range in the Andes, being found from Bolivia to Antioquia in Colombia, and also in Costa Rica, whence we have recently received three specimens from Mr. Rogers.
T. solstitialis was one of Fraser’s discoveries in Ecuador, where he met with it in June 1858 near Matos and Pinipi, villages situated on the eastern slope of the Andes,
