106 TROGLODYTIDÆ.
plumis nigris, medialiter sordide albo striolatis; subtus fulvido-albus, gula et abdomine medio fere albis; crisso obsolete nigro notato; rostri maxilla fusca, mandibula et pedibus pallide corylinis. Long. tota 4·3, alæ 1·75, caudæ 1·75, rostri a rictu 0·6, tarsi 0·7. (Descr. feminæ ex Dueñas, Guatemala. Mus. nostr.)
Hab. MEXICO, Orizaba (Sumichrast10); GUATEMALA, Lake of Dueñas5 6 and grassy summit of Volcan de Agua (O. S. & F. D. G.); PANAMA, Chiriqui (Arcé8).—ECUADOR11?, PERU12?, BOLIVIA4, BRAZIL3, PARAGUAY1.
The question of the value of the differences between the North-American Cistothorus stellaris and the Guatemalan bird called C. elegans has long been in dispute. After being a party to the separation of the latter in 1859, Mr. Sclater in his ‘Catalogue of American Birds,’ published in 1862, united it to C. stellaris, a course of proceeding Prof. Baird in 1864 pronounced to be hasty, and accordingly granted C. elegans full specific rank. In 1874, however, the same writer, with due deliberation and with apparently the same materials before him, followed Mr. Sclater’s footsteps of 1862. The facts of the case appear to be as follows:—After making considerable allowance for variation in the size of the bill and in the amount of the striation of the feathers of the head, there still seems to remain as a tolerably permanent difference between the two birds the colour of the lower back and rump, which in C. stellaris are marked with longitudinal streaks like the back, and in C. elegans are more or less uniform fulvous-brown, occasionally crossed with transverse bars*; the flanks, too, of the southern race are destitute of any bars or spots, and the tarsi seem to be always longer. Guided by these tests we trace C. elegans to Bolivia, whence we have a single specimen which has been already called C. polyglottus4, raising the further question whether C. elegans is not after all the southern C. polyglottus, a bird described by Azara1and named by Vieillot2. Of the latter bird we have a Nattererian specimen before us, obtained at Villa de Castro in 1820, and a Brazilian example belonging to the National Museum at Washington agreeing well together. The latter has already been set down, with doubt, as C. elegans. The only difference of any note between these two birds and C. elegans is in size, the wing, and especially the tarsi, being shorter in the Brazilian specimens. As the colour of the flanks and lower back is the same in both, we are inclined to think that the difference in dimensions is not sufficient to be considered of specific value. We are further of opinion that C. æquatorialis of Lawrence11and C. graminicola of Taczanowski12 are very probably referable to the same species, filling-in, as they do, links in its wide range. Lastly, with regard to the name of this Wren, if, as it seems to us by no means improbable, the North-American bird should be united with the southern (as has been already done by writers on North-American birds), C. polyglottus, proposed by Vieillot in 1819, has several years priority, and under this title all the rest should sink to synonyms.
* These are exaggerated in the Plate.
