CISTOTHORUS. 107
Of this species in Mexico we know but little. Prof. Sumichrast mentions it casually as having been obtained by him in Orizaba. In Guatemala it is of very local distribution, owing, doubtless, to scarcity of grassy swamps, its chief resort. On the western border of the small lake near Dueñas it was always present in the rushes and coarse grass which surround the margin of the open water. This spot was the abode of a good many pairs. Its shy skulking habits make it a bird difficult of observation, and it is only by remaining motionless in a place near to where a bird has made its presence known by its note that an occasional glimpse of it may be obtained. The original specimen of C. elegans was thus secured on the 1st of February, 1858; but others were subsequently shot at the end of July and of August, one obtained on the latter date being a young bird in its first moult. The specimen from the Volcan de Agua was found in the long grass which, with scattered pines, clothes the peak of the mountain from 10,000 feet above the sea and upwards. It was at an elevation of 11,000 feet that this bird was shot, in sight of the Lake of Dueñas, but 6000 feet above it, and far from any water. This bird differs in no way from the Dueñas ones, except that its bill is very short, hardly exceeding that of C. stellaris.
Of Chiriqui examples we have now seen several: in none are the striæ of the head very distinct; but they show no other peculiarities.
The figure is taken from a Dueñas specimen, the type of C. elegans.
Fam. MOTACILLIDÆ.
ANTHUS.
Anthus, Bechstein, Naturg. Deutschl. iii. p. 704 (1807).
The genus Anthus has been divided into a number of sections, which have been treated as genera or subgenera according to the views of different ornithologists. In its comprehensive sense Anthus contains perhaps fifty species, which are spread over nearly the whole world with the exception of the islands of the Pacific Ocean. Of these, if we exclude A. pratensis, which only appears as a straggler in Greenland, eight species occur in America, two in the northern and six in the southern continent. The northern birds, on account of their longer and more pointed wings, have been separated from the southern; and each section has been again divided into two—slight differences in the formation of the point of the wing and in the proportions of the tarsus, toes, and hind claws furnishing characters for their separation. These divisions, however, are barely recognizable, and may all be merged in the genus Anthus without difficulty.
In Central America only two species of Anthus occur, viz. Anthus ludovicianus, which spends the winter months in the highlands of Mexico and Guatemala in small numbers, and A. rufus, a southern species of wide range, which just enters our fauna
14*
