HELMINTHOTHERUS.—HELMINTHOPHAGA. 113
Supra olivascenti-viridis, alis et cauda concoloribus; capite toto et corpore subtus pallide ochraceo-fuscis, illo fasciis quatuor nigris ornato, duabus verticis utrinque ductis a naribus ad nucham et duabus postocularibus; abdomine medio albicante; rostro corneo, mandibula et pedibus carneis. Long. tota 5·0, alæ 2·8, caudæ 2·2, rostri a rictu 0·7, tarsi 0·75. (Descr. maris ex Dueñas, Guatemala. Mus. nostr.)
Hab. EASTERN NORTH AMERICA, from New England States southwards9 13.—MEXICO, Jalapa (de Oca3), Mountains of Orizaba (Sumichrast8), Merida, Yucatan (Schott7); GUATEMALA2, Dueñas, Tactic, Coban, Khamkal, Choctum (O. S. & F. D. G.); COSTA RICA (Hoffmann4), San José (v. Frantzius12, Carmiol6); PANAMA, Boquete de Chitra, Santa Fé11(Arcé).—CUBA10; JAMAICA14.
Helminthotherus vermivorus is a winter visitant to South-eastern Mexico, Guatemala, Costa Rica, and a portion of the adjoining State of Panama, arriving in September and leaving again in April or May. It is also found during the same season in Cuba and Jamaica, but does not reach any part of the continent of South America, the most southern point of its range yet recorded being Santa Fé in the State of Panama. In Guatemala it is by no means uncommon during the months it remains in the country, and is pretty generally distributed everywhere, preferring the woods of the highlands of Dueñas and Coban—not exclusively, however, as we obtained many specimens from Choctum and its neighbourhood in the hot forests about 1200 feet above the sea. Like other members of the family, it is restless, but is rather slow in its movements and not shy.
In its summer quarters in the United States it is spread over a wide area in the eastern section of the country, but nowhere abundantly. It probably breeds throughout its summer range, building a nest on the ground composed of dry leaves and lined with fine mosses9.
Bibliographical references to this species are fully given in Dr. Coues’s recent work13.
HELMINTHOPHAGA.
Helminthophaga, Cabanis, Mus. Hein. i. p. 20 (1850–51) (type Motacilla chrysoptera, Linn.); Baird, Brew. & Ridgw. N. Am. B. i. p. 191.
A short, delicate, sharply-pointed bill, without any notch, forms one of the chief characters of this genus. The tarsus is Long. compared with the middle toe; and the rictal bristles are not perceptible. Five out of the ten species that are now known occur within our limits as winter visitants. The remaining five, all more or less rare species, do not, so far as is yet known, pass beyond the limits of the United States. The species of Helminthophaga can be divided into two groups, to be recognized by the presence or absence of a conspicuous white patch on the tail.
BIOL. CENT.-AMER., Zool., Aves, Vol. 1, August 1880. 15
