118 MNIOTILTIDÆ.
RICA7, San José and Grecia (Carmiol10), Dota Mountains (v. Frantzius14); PANAMA, David (Hicks9), Volcan de Chiriqui, Calovevora (Arcé13), Lion Hill (M`Leannan8 5).—COLOMBIA15 20.
In its southern migration this species barely touches Mexico, though it has been several times reported from that country2 3. In Cuba it is even more rare, as Dr. Gundlach tells us that only two specimens have as yet come under his notice18. In Guatemala, especially in the vicinity of Coban, and thence southwards to the isthmus of Panama, the bird is a common one in the winter months; and here it must be that most of the birds rest during that season. In South America its presence is only known at the extreme north-western end of the continent. Here Mr. Simons obtained examples near Minea in the Sierra Nevada of Santa Marta20, and Mr. Wyatt others in the valley of the Magdalena15.
In the States this species is known as the “Tennessee Warbler,” it having been discovered by Alexander Wilson in that State; but in all but the most northern States it is a bird of passage, breeding in comparatively high latitudes17. Its range and habits are given by Dr. Brewer16, who also describes its nest as being a nearly flat bed of dry matted stems of grass, less than an inch in thickness, and three inches in diameter.
PARULA.
Parula, Bonaparte, Comp. List, p. 20 (1838) (type Parus americanus, Linn.); Baird, Brew. & Ridgw. N. Am. B. i. p. 207.
Compsothlypis, Cabanis, Mus.Hein. i. p. 20 (1850–51).
In this genus the bill is acute as in Helminthophaga; but a subterminal notch is faintly shown, and the rictal bristles are distinct and strong though short; the tarsus is longer than the middle toe; the more typical species have a triangular patch of olive-green on the back, and white spots on the tail. P. superciliosa and P. gutturalis have the tail without spots—the former with the back entirely olive-green, and the latter with a black triangular dorsal patch. Six species of the seven constituting the genus are included in this work, of which P. americana, the only strictly northern bird, enters our limits as a winter immigrant. P. inornata, P. insularis, and P. nigrilora are all slight modifications of the southern P. pitiayumi; the first-named ranging from Guatemala to the State of Panama, the second peculiar to the Tres Marias islands and Socorro, and the last to the Rio-Grande valley. P. superciliosa is restricted to the highlands of Southern Mexico and Guatemala, and P. gutturalis to the mountains of Costa Rica and the adjoining parts of the State of Panama.
