120 MNIOTILTIDÆ.
surrounded by long hanging mosses. Its shape varies from the simple weaving of the surrounding moss, in which a small hole leads to a cup-shaped chamber, to a globular pensile nest without lining and having an entrance in one side8.
Though a well-marked species without any near allies, the synonymy of Parula americana is a long story, the intricacies of which Dr. Coues has unravelled with great care and patience12.
2. Parula inornata. (Tab. VIII. fig. 1.)
Parula inornata, Baird, Rev. Am. B. i. p. 1711; Lawr. Ann. Lyc. N. Y. ix. p. 932; Salv. P. Z. S. 1870, p. 1823.
Parula brasiliana, Scl. & Salv. P. Z. S. 1860, p. 397 (nec Licht.)4.
Supra cærulescenti-schistacea, plaga magna dorsali oleaginea; fronte, loris et genis nigricantibus; alis dorso concoloribus; subtus flavissima, crisso albo; cauda utrinque albo notata; rostri maxilla nigra, mandibula flava; pedibus corylinis. Long. tota 4·3, alæ 1·9, caudæ 1·55, rostri a rictu 0·5, tarsi 0·65. (Descr. exempli ex Choctum, Vera Paz. Mus. nostr.)
Obs. Specimina quædam ex statu Panamensi maculas alares albas serie singula nec duplici positas habent.
Hab. GUATEMALA, Choctum (O. S. & F. D. G.1 3); COSTA RICA, Barranca and Dota Mountains (F. Carmiol2), Angostura (J. Carmiol); PANAMA, Volcan de Chiriqui, Boquete de Chitra, Calobre (Arcé3).
It is questionable if P. inornata is really specifically distinct from its southern ally P. pitiayumi, from which the typical bird differs in the absence of the two white wing-bars so conspicuous in the southern race.
The Guatemalan bird which Prof. Baird described has a plain-coloured wing with only faint indications of the distal wing-bar; but in specimens from the State of Panama this bar is clearly shown, the proximal bar being just indicated by obsolete spots. These birds, therefore, are distinctly intermediate between the unhanded P. inornata and the double-banded P. pitiayumi, and might almost as well be placed with one as with the other.
In Colombia the true P. pitayumi appears, and thence spreads over nearly the whole of South America as far as the Argentine Republic and Bolivia. Throughout this wide area birds do not appreciably differ.
As already stated P. inornata was first described from a Guatemalan specimen. This is still in our collection, and is the bird now figured. In Guatemala the species is a rare one, and very few specimens have come under our notice; its range is probably restricted to the forest-region of Vera Paz. In Costa Rica and Panama it is much more abundant, and we have received an abundant supply of specimens from those countries; but from the line of the Panama railway it is apparently absent, as M`Leannan never met with it during the years he worked at the ornithology of that district.
