122 MNIOTILTIDÆ.
in Texas, gives a full account of its habits as observed by him during two visits to its haunts in the valley of the Rio Grande3 4. He describes it as a bird of the forest, where it frequents the tops of the tallest trees, its presence being chiefly detected by its song, which can be heard at a considerable distance, and is easily distinguished from that of any other bird. Mr. Sennett only obtained one nest, which he describes as very peculiar. It was placed in an orchid (? mistletoe) very common on the Rio Grande, which grew at the end of a drooping branch of a brazil-tree some ten feet from the ground. The nest was of simple construction, formed partly of the grey leaves of the orchid, and thrust into its centre from the side; the bottom and sides of the nest were lined with short cotton-like wood-fibres. Dr. Merrill also found a nest5; but this was in a bunch of Spanish moss (Tillandsia) about eight feet from the ground. An egg obtained by Mr. Sennett he describes as very like that of P. americana, of a dull white ground and spotted, chiefly in a zone near the larger end, with spots of lilac and brown.
b. Cauda immaculata.
5. Parula superciliosa. (Tab. VIII. fig. 2.)
Conirostrum superciliosum, Hartl. Rev. Zool. 1844, p. 2151.
Parula superciliosa, Scl. P. Z. S. 1858, p. 2992; Scl.P. Z. S. 1859, p. 3733; Scl. & Salv. Ibis, 1859, p. 104; Baird, Rev. Am. B. i. p. 1715; Sumichrast, Mem. Bost. Soc. N. H. i. p. 5456.
Parula mexicana, Bp. Consp. i. p. 3107 (ex Lichtenstein).
Compsothlypis mexicana, Cab. Mus. Hein. i. p. 218.
Supra olivaceo-viridis; capite, genis, alis et cauda cinereis; superciliis elongatis, macula subooulari et subalaribus niveis; subtus læte flava, pectoris lateribus olivaceo tinctis; abdomine postico cinereo, medio cum crisso albis; macula pectorali lunata castanea; rostro nigricante, mandibulæ basi pallida; pedibus corylinis. Long. tota 4·7, alæ 2·5, caudæ 1·85, rostri a rictu 0·6, tarsi 0·7. (Descr. maris ex Yolcan de Fuego, Guatemala. Mus. nostr.)
Hab. MEXICO7 8 (Deppe, Mus. Berol.), Orizaba and Moyoapam (Sumichrast6), Tierra fria (le Strange), Talea3 and La Parada2 (Boucard); GUATEMALA1 4, Quezaltenango, Volcan de Fuego, ridge above Chuacus, Santa Barbara (O. S. & F. D. G).
This beautiful species is restricted in its range to the mountainous parts of Southern Mexico and Guatemala, and was first described from specimens sent from the latter country. In Mexico Prof. Sumichrast says it is found in the forests of oaks and pines at elevations of between 6000 and 8200 feet. In Guatemala we found it in similar districts, but chiefly in the oak-forests, especially those of the Volcan de Fuego, where it was common. In the hills surrounding the plain of Salama it was also not uncommonly met with, but at the lower elevation of between 3000 and 4000 feet. So far as we could observe, P. superciliosa has quite the habits of other Mniotiltidæ. It frequents the tree-tops, and searches branches and leaves diligently for insects. Of its breeding nothing is as yet known.
