DENDRŒCA. 141
being conspicuous by their scarlet colour. The eggs Mr. Brewster describes as peculiar, having a white ground, more or less thinly but evenly covered with fine but distinct spots of light reddish brown. Other eggs have much heavier markings.
17. Dendrœca townsendi.
Sylvia townsendi, Towns. Journ. Ac. Phil. vii. p. 1911 (ex Nuttall).
Dendrœca townsendi, Scl. P. Z. S. 1858, p. 2982; Scl.P. Z. S. 1859, p. 3743; Scl. & Salv. Ibis, 1859, p. 114; Baird, Rev. Am. B. i. p. 1855; Baird, Brew. & Ridgw. N. Am. B. i. p. 2656; Coues, B. Col. Vall. i. p. 2607.
Sylvia melanocausta, Licht, in Mus. Berol.8
Supra olivacea, interscapulio maculis celatis nigris notato, capite toto cum gula nigris, superciliis elongatis, macula suboculari et stria lata cervicis utrinque flavissimis; alis et cauda nigris, cinereo limbatis, illis albo bifasciatis, hac sicut in speciebus affinibus albo notata; subtus abdomine antico flavo, postico albo; hypochondriis et crisso nigro striatis. (Descr. maris ex Dueñas, Guatemala. Mus. nostr.)
♀ mari similis, pileo et genis dorso concoloribus, hypochondriorum striis obsoletis. (Descr. feminæ ex Dueñas, Guatemala. Mus. nostr.)
Hab. NORTH AMERICA, Rocky Mountains to the Pacific from Alaska2 southwards6 7.—MEXICO, N.W. Mexico (J. G. Bell3), Oaxaca (Deppe, Mus. Berol.), La Parada2, Totontepec3 (Boucard); GUATEMALA, Dueñas4, Volcan de Fuego and Coban (O. S. & F. D. G.).
Though no mention is made of this species by Lichtenstein in his published list of Deppe’s Mexican collections, the specimens now in the Berlin Museum standing under the manuscript name of Sylvia melanocausta were doubtless the first obtained by any naturalist. A few years afterwards it was again discovered by Nuttall and Townsend during their memorable journey to the Pacific in 1835.
Within our territory it is only known as a winter visitant, the Mexican records being almost confined to its occurrence in the State of Oaxaca, where Deppe discovered it and where Boucard afterwards met with it. In Guatemala it is more abundant on the slopes of the mountains bordering the Pacific than elsewhere, though we have specimens captured at Coban in Vera Paz. In the Volcan de Fuego we found it at elevations ranging from under 5000 to 10,000 and 12,000 feet, the latter altitude including the pine-clad summit of the mountain. In its habits it resembles D. virens and its immediate allies.
Of its breeding nothing is as yet known. In the western States it has usually been observed in autumn, and then migrating. Its summer quarters are probably as far north as Alaska, where it was obtained by Wahlberg2; but Dr. Coues thinks that the pine-belts of the mountains of New Mexico and Arizona may shelter some birds during the breeding-season7.
