PEUCEDROMUS. 143
Dendrœca olivacea, Scl. P. Z. S. 1858, p. 2984; Scl.P. Z. S. 1859, p. 3635; Baird, Rev. Am. B. i. p. 2056; Salv. Ibis, 1866, p. 1917; Sumichrast, Mem. Bost. Soc. N. H. i. p. 5468.
Peucedramus olivaceus, Coues, B. Col. Vall. i. p. 2339.
Sylvicola tæniata, Du Bus, Bull. Ac. Brux. xiv. pt. 2. p. 10410.
Supra cinereus, capite toto cum collo fulvo-aurantiacis, area oculorum nigra; alis nigris albo bifasciatis et secundariis interioribus flavo extus limbatis, remigibus reliquis albo marginatis, speculo alari albo; cauda nigra cinereo marginata, rectricibus duabus extimis pro majore parte albis; subtus gutture toto fulvo-aurantiaco; abdomine cinerascente medialiter albicante; pedibus obscure corylinis. Long. tota 5·2, alæ 2·9, caudæ 2·1, rostri a rictu 0·7, tarsi 0·75. (Descr. maris ex Volcan de Fuego, Guatemala. Mus. nostr.)
♀ mari similis, colore aurantiaco sordide flavo, pileo et cervice media olivaceis, area oculorum fusca, et abdomine albicantiore distinguenda. (Descr. feminæ ex Volcan de Fuego, Guatemala. Mus. nostr.)
Hab. NORTH AMERICA, Arizona9.—MEXICO10 (Sallé3), near the city (le Strange), alpine region of Vera Cruz (Sumichrast3), Popocatepetl (Verreaux6), Jalapa (de Oca5), La Parada (Boucard4); GUATEMALA, Volcan de Fuego7, Volcan de Agua, Chilasco (O. S. & F. D. G.).
Though described as a bird of Texas by Giraud in 1841, it was many years before P. olivaceus obtained a satisfactory footing within the limits of the United States. Its presence, however, in Arizona was fully established by Mr. W. H. Henshaw in 1874; and the bird now takes its place in the North-American fauna without further question. Soon after its first discovery it was found in Mexico and described under the name of Sylvicola tæniata by the late Viscount Du Bus10, a name shown by Mr. Sclater to belong to the same bird as Giraud’s Sylvia olivacea2. The bird is now well known in Mexico, and is included in the lists of nearly every collector who has worked in the southern parts of that country. It seems, however, to be strictly confined in its range to the high mountains of the interior, where it is a characteristic species between 5000 and 10,000 feet8. In Guatemala it is also a denizen of the highest districts, being common in the upper pine-belts of the volcanos above the elevation of 10,000 feet. We also met with it in the pine-tracts of Chilasco, in Vera Paz, at about 6000 feet above the sea.
Mr. Henshaw describes the habits of this bird as resembling those of Dendrœca pinus, the “Pine-Creeper,” as it creeps actively over the large limbs of the pine-trees, after the manner of that species. In the places where we found the bird the pine trees are of no great size, and we did not notice any thing peculiar in the method in which it searched for its food. Besides frequenting the pines, we also saw it in the scanty bushes found scattered throughout these high districts.
Nothing is as yet known of its nesting-habits, nor yet of its migrations. Our own observations of it extend only to the winter months; but we are strongly of opinion that it remains in its upland home throughout the year.
