146 MNIOTILTIDÆ.
Henicocichla noveboracensis, Cab. J. f. Orn. 1860, p. 32415; Scl. Cat. Am. B. p. 2516; Scl. & Salv. P. Z. S. 1864, p. 34617; Scl. & Salv.P. Z. S. 1870, p. 83618; Salv. P. Z. S. 1870, p. 18319.
Seiurus tenuirostris, Sw. Phil. Mag. new ser. i. p. 36920.
Supra olivaceo-fuscus, alis caudaque unicoloribus; stria superciliari et corpore subtus albidis flavo leviter tinctis, genis, pectore toto et hypochondriis fusco-nigro striatis, gula et abdomine medio fere immaculatis, rostro et pedibus corneis. Long. tota 5·0, alæ 2·9, caudæ 2·1, rostri a rictu 0·7, tarsi 0·7. (Descr. maris ex Belize, British Honduras. Mus. nostr.)
♀ mari omnino similis.
Hab. NORTH AMERICA generally2.—MEXICO, Tableland ? (Bullock), Jalapa (de Oca5), Mirador (Sartorius10), Orizaba, &c. (Sumichrast12), Tapana, Tehuantepec (Sumichrast9), Merida, Yucatan (Schott8); BRITISH HONDURAS, Belize (O. S.4); GUATEMALA, Coban, San Gerónimo, Dueñas, Patio Bolas, Retalhuleu (O. S. & F. D. G.); HONDURAS, San Pedro (G. M. Whitely18); NICARAGUA (J. M. DOW10); COSTA RICA, San José (Frantzius7 11), Angostura (Carmiol7 11); PANAMA, Bibala, Calovevora19 (Arcé), line of railway (M`Leannan6 17).—ANTILLES10 14, and northern parts of SOUTH AMERICA10 16.
This bird is best known by Gmelin’s name Motacilla noveboracensis, which was almost universally applied to it until Dr. Coues2 argued that Boddaert’s title M. nævia ought to supplant M. noveboracensis, both names having the same basis and the former several years priority. But as Boddaert had previously applied the same name to the well-known European Warbler Locustella nævia, Gmelin’s designation must be retained. The only other synonym that has been applied to this bird from our region is Seiurus tenuirostris, Sw.; and this can belong to no other species than S. noveboracensis. Elsewhere, in its wide range, a host of other names have been given to it; these have been carefully collected by Dr. Coues2, and, with the references to the literature of the species, occupy one and a half closely printed pages of his work.
Like so many Mniotiltidæ, Siurus noveboracensis is a winter visitant to the countries lying beyond the borders of the United States. Throughout Mexico and Central America it is a very common bird at this season, and is found everywhere from the sea-level up to an elevation of 5000 or 6000 feet. It utters no song during the period of its stay in these countries; but its clear sharp call-note is easily reorgnized amongst those of its allies. In Guatemala it may usually be seen near running streams, or by the side of pools and in open places rather than in the forest.
The breeding-quarters of this species extend over nearly the whole of North America2; but during the season of nesting these birds are more retiring than during the winter. The song is described by several writers as of good quality, but not so powerful as that of S. motacilla.
The nest is a beautiful structure placed on or close to the ground, and is composed of loose moss (Hypnum) intermingled with dead leaves and stems; the lining is composed of the fruit-stalks of the moss thickly felted together13.
