OPORORNIS. 149
Dota Mountains (Carmiol6); PANAMA, Chiriqui, Santa Fé (Arcé10), Lion Hill (M`Leannan4 2), Chepo (Arcé).—CUBA13.
This species appears to be of rare occurrence in Mexico, as only two instances are recorded of its having been observed in that country4 7. In Guatemala, however, during the winter months it is far from uncommon, and is generally distributed from an elevation of 1200 feet up to 7000 feet above the sea, frequenting both the forests of the lowlands and the second-growth woods of higher altitudes. Southwards of Guatemala it probably occurs everywhere in winter as far as Chepo in the isthmus of Panama, though our records only establish its presence in Costa Rica, the adjoining part of Veragua, and a little beyond the line of the Panama railway. In Cuba it is, according to Dr. Gundlach, a very rare bird13. Hence we may conclude that the line of the migration of this species from the Eastern States to Central America is rather a narrow one, extending from the State of Vera Cruz to the eastern coast of Yucatan.
In its summer range Oporornis formosa occupies the eastern portion of the United States, and goes as far north as Washington and Chicago, and westwards to the Kansas river12. In Texas, where Mr. Dresser observed it near San Antonio9, it is migratory, passing through the country in spring and autumn.
The nest is described by Brewer12 as a clumsily-made structure, placed on the ground, consisting outwardly of dead leaves, and lined inwardly with fine roots.
The eggs are white, sprinkled all over with fine dots of red and reddish brown, especially at the larger end.
The song of this species is described by Mr. Ridgway as a very pretty fine whistle, resembling that of Cardinalis virginianus, but finer in tone, though not so powerful.
To Dr. Coues we are indebted for a full list of the references to the literature of this bird14.
GEOTHLYPIS.
Geothlypis, Cabanis, Arch. f. Naturg. i. pp. 316, 349 (1847); Baird, Brew. & Ridgw. N. Am. B. i. p. 295.
Trichas, Swainson, Zool. Journ. iii. p. 167 (nec Gloger).
Twelve species and races are now recognized of this genus, whereof eight occur within the limits of the Central-American fauna. Of these, three spend the winter in the country as migrants from the north, three are peculiar to Mexico, one is found in Guatemala and Costa Rica, and one is peculiar to the district of Chiriqui. Of the extra-limital species, G. rostrata is peculiar to the Bahamas; G. semiflava, G. æquinoctialis, and G. velata are found respectively in Ecuador, in Guiana and Amazonia, and in Brazil.
All the members of the genus have very short rounded wings. The rictal bristles
