



102 teoglodytim:. 

inseparable as species, owing to the gradual passage of even the most diverse of the 
forms from one into another by insensible gradations. 

In the ' Nomenclator Avium Neotropicalium ' a somewhat similar conclusion was 

arrived at 3
. Two southern species were there admitted, T.furvus and T. tessellatus, 
under the latter name being included all the birds from the Andes and Panama, the 
former embracing the rest of the South-American Wrens of this form. We now find 

that the birds of Guiana, the origin of the types of T. furvus, are not separable from the 
Wren of Panama, and that T.furvus and T. tessellatus blend insensibly together. On 

the other hand, slight differences in the Central-American T. intermedins seem to justify 

its separation. 
The Panama bird which Prof. Baird distinguished by the name of T. inquietusn
, 
besides agreeing with the Guiana Wren, does not differ materially from the birds of 
Antioquia 7 
, Bogota 8 
, and Peru 4 
. At Santa Marta it passes into the Trinidad and 
Venezuela form, in which the marks of the back are less distinct, and is thus connected 
by insensible degrees with theWren of the Amazons, Brazil, and Chili. Its northward 
extension seems tolerably defined, not passing the limits of the State of Panama. In 
Costa Rica T. intermedius takes its place, though T. inquietus appears in Mr. Lawrence's 

list 13 of the birds of that country on our authority. 
When crossing the Isthmus of Panama in 1863 we noticed that the notes of the 
Wren found there differed from those of the Central-American bird, with which we were 
then well acquainted. It frequented similar places, being a constant attendant about 
houses and walls of old buildings. Salmon took its eggs at Medellin, in Colombia. 
These exactly resembled those of T. aedon, being thickly freckled with red. 

5. Troglodytes solstitialis. 

Troglodytes solstitialis, Scl. P. Z. S. 1858, p. 550 ' ; Scl.& Salv. Ex. Orn. p. 45, t. 23. f.V ; P. Z. S. 
1879, pp. 493 
3
, 593 
4 
; Tacz. P. Z. S. 1874, p. 5055
. 

Supra saturate "brunneus, alls et cauda nigro distincte transfasciolatis, striga postoculari distincta fulva; capitis 
lateribus et corpore subtus dilute fulvis, abdomine medio albicantiore, crisso nigro transfasciato ; rostro fusco, 
pedibus eorylinis. Long, tota 3-8, alse 1-8, caudas 1-2, rostri a rictu 0'7, tarsi 0*7. (Descr. exempl. ex 
Costa Eica. Mus. nostr.) 

Hah. Costa Rica (Rogers).—Colombia 2 3 
; Ecuadoe l 
; Peku 5 
; Bolivia 4
. 

The smaller size, the distinct superciliary stripe, the darker and more uniform tint of 
the plumage above, and the whiter belly distinguish this species from all the forms of 
T. furvus, it being, in fact, readily distinguishable from that bird. It has an extensive 
range in the Andes, being found from Bolivia to Antioquia in Colombia, and also in 
Costa Eica, whence we have recently received three specimens from Mr. Rogers. 
T. solstitialis was one of Eraser's discoveries in Ecuador, where he met with it in 
June 1858 near Matos and Pinipi, villages situated on the eastern slope of the Andes,
