



ANTHTJS. 109 

Supra fuscus, capitis et dorsi plumis pallide fulvo marginatis, alis et cauda fuscis fulvido limbatis ; Cauda fusco- 
nigra, rectricibus duabus utrinque externis gradatim fulvo-albidis ; subtus cum superciliis sordide albus 
fulvo (prsecipue in pectore) tinctus, pectore fusco-nigro distincte maculato ; rostro corneo, mandibula3 basi 

albicantiore ; pedibus flavidis. Long, tota 4-5-5, alee 2*4, caudae 1*8, rostri a rictu 06, tarsi 
-8. (Descr. 
maris ex Santa Pe, Panama. Hus. nostr.) 

Hab. Panama, Santa Fe (Arce 7
), line of railway (Galbraith 36
).—South America 

generally to Peeu 5 9 and Brazil 5 8 
. 

When endeavouring in 1867 to determine the proper name for a Veraguan specimen 

of this little Anthus 7 
, we were quite unable to detect any valid differences between it 
andAmazonian and Brazilian examples of a birdwe believe to be theAnthusrufus (Gm.). 

Since then we have had opportunities of examining other specimens, which have tended 

to confirm our opinion that all belong to a single species. This, too, is Mr. Sclater's 

verdict, who has recently carefully investigated the subject 5 
. We believe, too, that 
Anthus rufus may be used as the name of the species ; for though it does not extend 

its range to Buenos Ayres, as D'Aubenton's name would imply, the figure can hardly 
have been drawn from a specimen of any other South-American Pipit. If, however, it 

can be shown that the name Anthus rufus is not strictly applicable to it, Mr. Lawrence's 

title A. parvus may be used without doubt for the Central-American bird. 
Of the habits of this species little information has reached us. Mr. Galbraith 3 

found it on the savannas near Panama, where it builds its nest on the ground, the 
male ascending above the nest and remaining singing in the air for a long time. 
Mr. Wallace 5 observed it in tolerable abundance on the open dry plains in the island 

of Mexiana at the mouth of the Amazons ; and Natterer obtained 8 specimens near Rio 

Janeiro at pools in the road and in the swamps. 

Fam. MNIOTILTID^i*. 

Subfam. MmOTlLTINM^. 

MNIOTILTA. 

Mniotilta, Vieillot, Anal. p. 45 (1816). (Type Motacilla varia, Linn.) 

Mniotilta, Baird, Brew. & Ridgw. N. Am. B. i. p. 180. 

This genus contains but a single species, which differs from the other genera of this 

* In the arrangement of this family we have to a great extent followed the system elaborated by Prof- 
Baird in his ' Eeview of American Birds.' and used again in the ' History of North-American Birds.' Dr. Coues 
has also followed the same general plan in his ' Birds of the Colorado Valley,' where, however, he has reduced 

Prof. Baird's four subfamilies to three, introducing thereby greater simplicity of arrangement. The family 

itself is on all hands confessedly one of arbitrary rather than natural limits ; but materials are not ripe for 

a satisfactory recasting of it and the obviously allied groups Coerebidce, Tanagridce, &c. 
t Of. Coues, B. Col. Vail. i. p. 203.
