



118 MNIOTILTIIXE. 

Rica 7 
, San Jose and Grecia (Carmiol 10
), Dota Mountains (v. Frantzius 14); Panama, 
David (Hicks 9
), Volcan de Chiriqui, Calovevora (Arce 13
), Lion Hill (M'Leannan85
). —Colombia 152°. 

In its southern migration this species barely touches Mexico, though it has been 

several times reported from that country 2 3 
. In Cuba it is even more rare, as Dr. 
Gundlach tells us that only two specimens have as yet come under his notice 18 
. In 
Guatemala, especially in the vicinity of Coban, and thence southwards to the isthmus 

of Panama, the bird is a common one in the winter months ; and here it must be that 
most of the birds rest during that season. In SouthAmerica its presence is onlyknown 

at the extreme north-western end of the continent. HereMr. Simons obtainedexamples 

near Minea in the Sierra Nevada of Santa Marta 20
, and Mr. Wyatt others in the valley 

of the Magdalena 15 
. 
In the States this species is known as the " Tennessee Warbler," it having been dis- 

covered by Alexander Wilson in that State ; but in all but the most northern States it 

is a bird of passage, breeding in comparatively high latitudes 17 
. Its range and habits 

are given by Dr. Brewer 16
, who also describes its nest as being a nearly flat bed of dry 
matted stems of grass, less than an inch in thickness, and three inches in diameter. 

PARULA. 

Parula, Bonaparte, Comp. List, p. 20 (1838) (type Parus americanus, Linn.) ; Baird, Brew. & 

ftidgw. N. Am. B. i. p. 207. 

Compsothlypis, Cabanis, Mus. Hein. i. p. 20 (1850-51). 

In this genus the bill is acute as in Helmintlwpliaga ; but a subterminal notch is 

faintly shown, and the rictal bristles are distinct and strong though short ; the tarsus 

is longer than the middle toe ; the more typical species have a triangular patch of 

olive-green on the back, and white spots on the tail. P. superciliosa and P. gutturalis 

have the tail without spots—the former with the back entirely olive-green, and the latter 

with a black triangular dorsal patch. Six species of the seven constituting the genus 

are included in this work, of which P. americana, the only strictly northern bird, enters 

our limits as a winter immigrant. P. inomata, P. insularis, and P. nigrilora are all 

slight modifications of the southern P.pitiayumi ; the first-named ranging from Guate- 
mala to the State of Panama, the second peculiar to the Tres Marias islands and Socorro, 
and the last to the Rio-Grande valley. P. superciliosa is restricted to the highlands of 

Southern Mexico and Guatemala, and P. gutturalis to the mountains of Costa Rica and 

the adjoining parts of the State of Panama.
