



120 MNIOTILTIILE. 

surrounded by long hanging mosses. Its shape varies from the simple weaving of the 

surrounding moss, in which a small hole leads to a cup-shaped chamber, to a globular 

pensile nest without lining and having an entrance in one side 8 
. 
Though a well-marked species without any near allies, the synonymy of Parula ame- 

ricana is a long story, the intricacies of which Dr. Coues has unravelled with great care 

and patience 12 
. 

2. Parula inornata. (Tab. VIII. fig. l.) 

Parula inornata, Baird, Rev. Am. B. i. p. 171 l 
; Lawr. Ann. Lye. N. Y. ix. p. 93 2 
; Salv. P. Z. S. 

1870, p. 182 
3 

. 
Parula brasiliana, Scl. & Salv. P.Z. S. I860, p. 397 (nee Licht.) 
4 

. 

Supra caeruleseenti-schistacea, plaga magna dorsali oleaginea ; fronte, loris et genis nigricantibus ; alis dorso 

concoloribus ; subtus flavissima, crisso albo ; cauda utrinque albo notata ; rostri maxilla nigra, mandibula 

flava ; pedibus corylinis. Long, tota 4*3, alas 1*9, caudse 1*55, rostri a rictu 
-5, tarsi 0*65. (Descr. exempli 
ex Cboctum, Yera Paz. Mus. nostr.) 

Obs. Specimina qusedam ex statu Panamensi maculas alares albas serie singula nee duplici positas babent. 

Hab. Guatemala, Choctum (0. S. & F. J). 6r.13); Costa Rica, Barranca and Dota 
Mountains (P. Carmiol 2
), Angostura (J. Carmiol) ; Panama, Volcan de Chiriqui, 
Boquete de Chitra, Calobre (Arce 3
). 

It is questionable if P. inornata is really specifically distinct from its southern ally 

P. pitiayumi, from which the typical bird differs in the absence of the two white wing- 

bars so conspicuous in the southern race. 
The Guatemalan bird which Prof. Baird described has a plain-coloured wing with 

only faint indications of the distal wing-bar ; but in specimens from the State of 
Panama this bar is clearly shown, the proximal bar being just indicated by obsolete 

spots. These birds, therefore, are distinctly intermediate between the unhanded P. 

inornata and the double-banded P. pitiayumi, and might almost as well be placed with 
one as with the other. 

In Colombia the true P. pitayumi appears, and thence spreads over nearly the whole 

of South America as far as the Argentine Republic and Bolivia. Throughout thiswide 

area birds do not appreciably differ. 
As already stated P. inornatawas first described from a Guatemalan specimen. This 

is still in our collection, and is the bird now figured. In Guatemala the species is a 

rare one, and very few specimens have come under our notice ; its range is probably 

restricted to the forest-region ofVera Paz. In Costa Rica and Panama it is much more 
abundant, and we have received an abundant supply of specimens from those countries ; 
but from the line of the Panama railway it is apparently absent, as M'Leannan never 
met with it during the years he worked at the ornithology of that district.
