



122 MNI0TILTID.3:. 

in Texas, gives a full account of its habits as observed by him during two visits to its 
haunts in the valley of the Eio Grande 3 4
. He describes it as a bird of the forest 
where it frequents the tops of the tallest trees, its presence being chiefly detected by its 
song, which can be heard at a considerable distance, and is easily distinguished from 
that of any other bird. Mr. Sennett only obtained one nest, which he describes as very 
peculiar. It was placed in an orchid (1 mistletoe) very common on the Eio Grande, 
which grew at the end of a drooping branch of a brazil-tree some ten feet from the 
ground. The nest was of simple construction, formed partly of the grey leaves of the 
orchid, and thrust into its centre from the side ; the bottom and sides of the nest were 
lined with short cotton-like wood-fibres. Dr. Merrill also found a nest 5 
; but this was 
in a bunch of Spanish moss (Tillandsia) about eight feet from the ground. An egg 
obtained by Mr. Sennett he describes as very like that of P. americana, of a dull white 
ground and spotted, chiefly in a zone near the larger end, with spots of lilac and brown. 

b. Cauda immaculata. 

5. Parula superciliosa. (Tab. VIII. fig. 2.) 
Conirostrum superciliosum, Hartl. Eev. Zool. 1844, p. 215 *. 
Parula superciliosa, Scl. P. Z. S. 1858, p. 299 
2 1859, p. 373 
3 
; Scl. & Salv. Ibis, 1859, p. 10 
4 

; 
Baird, Rev. Am. B. i. p. 171 
5 
; Sumichrast, Mem. Bost. Soc. N, H. i. p. 545 
G 

. 
Parula mexicana, Bp. Consp. i. p. 310 
7 (ex Lichtenstein) 

. 

Compsothlypis mexicana, Cab. Mus. Hem. i. p. 21 
8 

. 

Supra olivaceo-viridis ; capite, genis, alis et cauda cinereis ; superciliis elongatis, macula suboculari et subalaribus 
mveis 
; subtus bete flava, pectoris lateribus olivaceo tinctis ; abdomine postico cinereo, medio cum crisso 
albis 
; macula pectorali lunata castanea ; rostro nigricante, mandibular basi pallida ; pedibus corylinis. Long, 
tota 4-7, alae 2-5, caudse 1-85, rostri a rictu 0-6, tarsi 0-7. (Descr. maris exYolcan de Fuego, Guatemala. 
Mus. nostr.) 

Hal. Mexico 7 8 (Deppe, Mus. Berol), Orizaba andMoyoapam (Sumichrast% Tierra fria 

(le Strange), Talea3 and La Parada 2 (Boucard) ; Guatemala 1 4
, Quezaltenango, 
Volcan de Fuego, ridge above Chuacus, Santa Barbara (0. S. & F. D. #,). 

This beautiful species is restricted in its range to the mountainous parts of Southern 
Mexico and Guatemala, and was first described from specimens sent from the latter 
country. In Mexico Prof. Sumichrast says it is found in the forests of oaks and pines 
at elevations of between 6000 and 8200 feet. In Guatemala we found it in similar 
districts, but chiefly in the oak-forests, especially those of the Volcan de Fuego, where 
it was common. In the hills surrounding the plain of Salama it was also not 'uncom- 
monly met with, but at the lower elevation of between 3000 and 4000 feet. So far as 
we could observe, P. superciliosa has quite the habits of other Mniotiltid©. It frequents 
the tree-tops, and searches branches and leaves diligently for insects. Of its breeding 
nothing is as yet known.
