



138 MNIOTILTIDJE. 

Hab. Noeth Ameeica, Eastern Province 1518
, Canada, Texas 17 .

—

Mexico (Salle 3
), 
Lagunas, Alvarado, and Cuernavaca (Bepjoe, Mus. Berol.), State of Vera Cruz 

(Sumichrast 12
), Jalapa (de Oca 6
), Talea and Playa Vicente (Boucard 7
), Mira- 

dor (Sartoriusn
), Santa Efigenia, Tehuantepec (Sumichrast 10); Guatemala, 

Duefias4
, San Geronimo, Tactic, Coban (0. S. & F. D. G.) ; Costa Eica, Grecia, 

Barranca, and Kancho Eedondo (Carmiol 9
), Candelaria Mountains^. Frantzius 1B); 
Panama, Volcan de Chiriqui (Arceu
), Lion Hill (M'Leannan5 8
).—Cuba 16 
; 
Jamaica 19 
. 

In Guatemala Bendrwca virens is one of the commonest species ofMni otiltidse during 

the winter months, but is more abundant in Vera Paz and on the eastern side of the 

country than about Duenas, where its place is to some extent, though not entirely, taken 
by B. townsendi. It frequents, like the rest of its family, the second-growth woods, and 
may always be found during the period of its stay in the outskirts of plantations, its 

only note during this season being a sharp call. In Mexico it would appear to be 

equally abundant in winter, as all cellectors seem to have met with it, and Prof. Sumi- 

chrast speaks of it as found everywhere in the State of Vera Cruz. On the Pacific side 

of the country it only appears in the neighbourhood of Tehuantepec. In Costa Rica 

it is also common in winter, but in the State of Panama perhaps less so, though several 
specimens have been sent us from the line of railway. In Cuba it is rare, Dr. 
Gundlach having seen it but few times 16 
. In Jamaica it was unknown until quite 

recently, when Mr. E. Newton discovered it in the island and sent home several 
specimens 19 
. 
In North America B. virens is essentially a bird of the Eastern Province, extending 
westwards to the edge of the plains and northwards to the temperate portions of the 

British possessions. Beyond these limits it has been known to stray to Greenland, and 
even to Heligoland 18 
! It breeds in the northern portion of its range and in the New- 
England States. The nest is described by Brewer 15 as a small, snug, compact structure 

built on a base of fine strips of bark, bits of leaves, and stems of plants ; the lining 

consists of fine down and silky stems of plants. The eggs have a white or purplish- 
white ground, and are blotched and dotted with markings of reddish and purplish 
brown diffused over the whole surface, but especially at the larger end. 

15. Dendrceca occidentalis. 

Sylvia occidentalis, Towns. Journ. Ac. Phil. vii. p. 190 \ 
Dendroeca occidentalis, Baird, Rev. Am. B. i. p. 183 
2 
; Scl. Ibis, 1865, p. 89 3 
; Salv. Ibis, 1866, 

p. 191 
i 
; Sumichrast, Mem. Bost. Soc. N. H. i. p. 546 
5 
; Baird, Brew. & Ridg. N.-Am. B. 

i. p. 266 ° ; Coues, B. Col. Vail. i. p. 258 \ 
Dendrceca chrysoparia, Scl. P. Z. S. 1862, p. 19 
8 (nee Scl. & Salv.). 
Dendrceca niveiventris, Salv. P. Z. S. 1863, p. 187, t. 24. f. 2 
9
.
