



DENDECECA. 139 

Supra nigra, dorsi plumis cinereo limbatis, uropygio fere pure cinereo ; pileo antico flavo, plumis nigro termi- 
natis ; fronte et capitis lateribus lsete flavis ; alis et cauda nigris, extus cinereo limbatis, illis albo bifasciatis, 
hujus rectricibus tribus utrinque externis albo pro majore parte notatis ; subtus gula nigra, corporis reliquo 
cum hypochondriis pure albis ; rostro et pedibus nigricantibus. Long, tota 4-9, ala3 2-7, caudse 2-2, rostri 
a rictu 0-5, tarsi 0-65. (Descr. maris ex San Geronimo, Guatemala. Mus. nostr.) 
$ mari similis, sed supra magis cinerascens, gula nigra absente. (Descr. feminae ex Volcan de Fuego, Guate- 
mala. Mus. nostr.) 

Hdb. North America, Rocky Mountains to Pacific Ocean from the Columbia river 
southwards 6 7 .

—

Mexico,Moyoapam (Sumichrast 5
J, La Parada (Boucard 8
); Guate- 
mala, Volcan de Fuego, San Geronimo, Alotepeque (0. 8. & F. D. G. 4 9
). 

So little was known of this species in 1862 and 1863 that specimens that then came 
into our possession were in one case referred to a different species 8 and in another 
described as new 9
, errors which were soon afterwards corrected 3
, and Mexican and 
Guatemalan examples referred to the bird discovered by Nuttall and Townsend on the 
banks of the Columbia river in 1835. Since then D. occidentalis hasbeen found in many 
parts of the Rocky Mountains and in Arizona 7 
. In Mexico its range seems quite 
confined to the higher districts, Professor Sumichrast having obtained it at an eleva- 
tion of 8200 feet above the sea. In Guatemala, though it was perhaps most abundant 
in the belt of pine trees of the Volcan de Fuego which covers the mountain above 
10,000 feet, we nevertheless found it at much lower elevations, having shot specimens 
in the hills surrounding the plain of Salama about 3500 feet above the sea, and near 
the mines of Alotepeque at a similar elevation. The bird is always found in the pine- 

forests ; but the trees being of moderate height, specimens were not difficult to obtain. 

Its habits are similar to those of D. virens ; and throughout the day it searches restlessly 

for food in the outer branches of the trees. 
Of its breeding nothing has as yet been recorded. In Guatemala and Mexico it is 
doubtless only a winter visitant ; and in the southern part of its range in North America 

it has only been observed on passage ; but, as Dr. Coues remarks 7 
, it may yet be found 

to build in the higher pine-belts of the Colorado watershed. The northern part of 

its range is its summer quarters ; and here it no doubt breeds. 

16. Dendroeca chrysoparia. 

Dendroeca chrysoparia, Scl. & Salv. P. Z. S. 1860, p. 298 
l 
; Ibis, 1860, p. 273 
: 
; Scl. Ibis, 1865, 

p. 89 3 
; Dresser, Ibis, 1865, p. 477 
4 
; Baird, Eev. Am. B. i. p. 183 
3 
; Baird, Brew. & Bidgw. 
N. Am. B. i. p. 260 °; Salv. in Rowley's Orn. Misc. ii. p. 181. t. 23 7 
; Purdie, Bull. Nutt. 
Ora. Club, iv. p. 60 
s 
; Brewster, Bull. Nutt. Orn. Club, iv. p. 77 \ 

Supra nigra, dorsi plumis aureo limbatis ; capitis lateribus laete flavis, stria per oculos ducta nigra ; alis et cauda 
nigricantibus, illis albo bifasciatis, hujus rectricibus tribus utrinque externis albo pro majore parte notatis 

; 

subtus gutture toto cum pectoris lateribus nigris, hypochondriis nigro striatis ; rostro et pedibus nigricanti- 
corneis. Long, tota 4-5, alse 2*5, caudse 2-2, rostri a rictu 0-5, tarsi 0-7. (Descr. maris ex Tactic Guate- 
mala. Mus. nostr.). 

Obs. D. virenti affinis, dorso nigro primo visu distinguenda. 
18*
