



146 MNIOTILTIDiE. 

Henicocichla noveboracensis, Cab. J. f. Orn. 1860, p. 324 
15 
; Scl. Cat. Am. B. p. 25 
1S 
; Scl. & Sab. 

P. Z. S. 1864, p. 346 
17 
; 1870, p. 836 
18 
; Salv. P. Z. S. 1870, p. 183 
19 
. 

Seiurus tenuirostris, Sw. Phil. Mag. new ser. i. p. 369 
20
. 

Supra olivaceo-fuscus, alis caudaque unicoloribus ; stria superciliari et corpore subtus albidis flavo leviter 

tinctis, genis, pectore toto et hypochondriis fusco-nigro striatis, gula et abdomine medio fere immaculatis, 

rostro et pedibus corneis. Long, tota 5-0, alas 2*9, caudee 2-1, rostri a rictu 0*7, tarsi 0-7. (Descr. maris 

ex Belize, British Honduras. Mus. nostr.) 

5 mari omnino similis. 

Bab. Noeth Ameeica generally 2 .

—

Mexico, Tableland 1 (Bullock), Jalapa (de Oca 5
), 
Mirador (Sartorius 10
), Orizaba, &c. (Sumichrast 12
), Tapana, Tehuantepec (Sumi- 

chrast 9
), Merida, Yucatan (Schott 8
) ; Beitish Hondueas, Belize (O. &4
) ; Guate- 

mala, Coban, San Geronimo, Duenas, Patio Bolas, Eetalhuleu (O. S. & F. I). G.) 

; 

Hondueas, San Pedro (G. M. Whitely 18
) ; Nicaeagua (J. M.Bow 10 
) ; Costa Eica, 

San Jose (Frantzius 1 n), Angostura (Carmiol 7 u
) ; Panama, Bibala, Calovevora 19 

(Arce), line of railway (M'Beannan 6 17).

—

Antilles 10 14
, and northern parts of 

South Ameeica 10 16 
. 

This bird is best knownby Gmelin's name Motacilla noveboracensis, which was almost 

universally applied to it until Dr. Coues 2 argued that Boddaert's title M. ncevia ought 

to supplant M. noveboracensis, both names having the same basis and the former several 

years priority. But as Boddaert had previously applied the same name to the well- 
known European Warbler Bocustella ncevia, Gmelin's designation must be retained. 
The only other synonym that has been applied to this bird from our region is Seiurus 

tenuirostris, Sw. ; and this can belong to no other species than 8. noveboracensis. Else- 

where, in its wide range, a host of other names have been given to it; these have been 

carefully collected by Dr. Coues 2
, and, with the references to the literature of the species, 

occupy one and a half closely printed pages of his work. 
Like so many Mniotiltidse, Siurus noveboracensis is a winter visitant to the countries 

lying beyond the borders of the United States. Throughout Mexico and Central 
America it is a verycommon bird at this season, and is found everywhere from the sea- 

level up to an elevation of 5000 or 6000 feet. It utters no song during the period of # \ 

its stay in these countries ; but its clear sharp call-note is easily reorgnized amongst ®A' 

those of its allies. In Guatemala it may usually be seen near running streams, or 
by the side of pools and in open places rather than in the forest. 
The breeding-quarters of this species extend over nearly thewhole of North America 2 
; 
but during the season of nesting these birds are more retiring than during the winter. 
The song is described by several writers as of good quality, but not so powerful as 

that of S. motacilla. 
The nest is a beautiful structure placed on or close to the ground, and is composed of 

loose moss (Hypnum) intermingled with dead leaves and stems ; the lining is composed 
of the fruit-stalks of the moss thickly felted together 13 
. .
