



OPOEOENIS. 149 

Dota Mountains (Carmiol 6); Panama, Chiriqui, Santa Fe (Arce 10
), Lron Hill 
[M'Leannan 4 2
), Chepo {Arce).—Cuba 
13
. 

This species appears to be of rare occurrence in Mexico, as only two instances are 
recorded of its having been observed in that country 47 
. In Guatemala, however, 
during the winter months it is far from uncommon, and is generally distributed from 
an elevation of 1200 feet up to 7000 feet above the sea, frequenting both the forests 
of the lowlands and the second-growth woods of higher altitudes. Southwards of 
Guatemala it probably occurs everywhere in winter as far as Chepo in the isthmus of 
Panama, though our records only establish its presence in Costa Kica, the adjoining 
part of Veragua, and a little beyond the line of the Panama railway. In Cuba it is, 
according to Dr. Gundlach, a very rare bird 13
. Hence we may conclude that the line 
of the migration of this species from the Eastern States to Central America is rather 
a narrow one, extending from the State of Vera Cruz to the eastern coast of 
Yucatan. 
In its summer range Oporornis formosa occupies the eastern portion of the United 
States, and goes as far north as Washington and Chicago, and westwards to the Kansas 
river 12 

. In Texas, where Mr. Dresser observed it near San Antonio 9
, it is migratory, 
passing through the country in spring and autumn. 
The nest is described by Brewer 12 as a clumsily-made structure, placed on the 
ground, consisting outwardly of dead leaves, and lined inwardly with fine roots. 
The eggs are white, sprinkled all over with fine dots of red and reddish brown, espe- 
cially at the larger end. 
The song of this species is described by Mr. Eidgway as a very pretty fine whistle, 
resembling that of Cardinalis virginianus, but finer in tone, though not so powerful. 
To Dr. Coues we are indebted for a full list of the references to the literature of 
this bird M
. 

GEOTHLYPIS. 

Geothlypis, Cabanis, Arch. f. Naturg. i. pp. 316, 349 (1847) ; Baird, Brew. & Ridgw. N. Am. B. i. 

p. 295. 

Trichas, Swainson, Zool. Joum. iii. p. 167 (nee G-loger). 

Twelve species and races are now recognized of this genus, whereof eight occur 
within the limits of the Central-American fauna. Of these, three spend the winter in 
the country as migrants from the north, three are peculiar to Mexico, one is found 
in Guatemala and Costa Kica, and one is peculiar to the district of Chiriqui. Of the 
extra-limital species, G. rostrata is peculiar to the Bahamas ; G. semiflava, G. cequi- 

Qioctialis, and G. velata are found respectively in Ecuador, in Guiana and Amazonia, 
and in Brazil. 

All the members of the genus have very short rounded wings. The rictal bristles
